# Video Information

**Title   ** : Brad Holmes on Building a Winning Culture — Lessons from the Detroit Lions for Business Leaders  
**Uploader** : Automate Show  
**Duration** : 42:15  
**URL     ** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w8_DJiYtEOk  

---

## Transcription

 I appreciate it. Over Count the Field, a trucky team that will not yield. And we know the land. What did you guys come from? We were in their cover minutes ago. Place was empty. It's great to see everybody today. We're going to have some fun. And I think we can all agree. The Lions fans in this room with this gentleman, and this staff is done to bring this football team to relevancy and beyond, and have them in the Super Bowl conversation is been outstanding. But I think you're going to see the relationship here between what Brad has done and businesses everywhere. Because it is in the end-day business. It is about people. It is about a product. It's about decisions. So we're going to delve into that, and we look forward to it. And we'll grab a couple of audience questions just a little bit later. All right, Brad. So here we are. It is how to build a winning culture of you from the NFL. So let's just start here for you to find culture. Yeah, I think it's two components. I do think that, for one, it's people. And you have to have the right people that are on the same mission that are unifying in alignment. But also, I do also think that the other important is what I say, authentic leadership. So you have the right people. But when I say authentic leadership, your leadership and your executives, and your people at the top, your leadership has to be who you really are, like internally. There's plenty of books in everything that you can read. But if it's not truly who you are as a person, that you can bring your core values and what you truly believe to life. And hopefully to benefit the people, then it's going to be hard. But I think the authentic leadership in the people. There's so many things there that we're going to break down individually. But I also want to go to this. I think culture is a word. It's probably in the media where the ones that do it, that we throw around a lot. Something's going well in an NFL city, and we say, oh, they've got good culture. But that's not always the case. And winning doesn't mean that you have culture, correct? I totally agree. And to think about, and I'm glad you said that it gets thrown around a lot because culture is subjective. In terms of, look, there's different religions and nationalities that have different cultures. And who would say that it's right or strong or strong or it's weak? So it does get thrown around. But for us, me and Dan and our ownership, we're all in alignment of what we believe a strong culture is. And so, but yeah, it is thrown around loosely. And again, if you win, then it's obviously, oh, well, they have a culture. But even on that, look, just if you're winning, say you don't have a culture, or let's say a strong culture. Say your culture is more, hey, let's skip as many steps as possible. Let's take as many shortcuts as possible. Let's not be collaborative. Let's not, let's just hurry up being get it done, and let's be impatient. But you still have success. Well, that's your culture. And then you had success. But I just don't think that you're going to be able to sustain it very long. Which leads me to my next question. And you just let me write to it. Culture is something that can help you win. But it is also probably more importantly, in my mind, the thing that gets you through difficult times because you know who you are. Absolutely. And just like those examples I was saying about the culture, who, you know, the culture that we would not see as a strong culture. But if that's the culture and they have success, look, the ball can bounce you away. And you can have wins. Even if you have, let's say, the talent in place. You have good leadership, good coaches, you know, from a business corporate standpoint. You got the right CEOs and the right exact. You have the right employees. You have talent. All that. The ball can bounce you away. But the thing about what we believe in is like the work, you know, collaboration, taking the hard road, not skipping any steps, working together, everybody collaborating. All those things because we align our culture for the ball's not going to bounce our way. And so to have, you know, we have the leadership in place. And, you know, to have the talent, all that. Well, when you have the plan, you have the preparation. And the ball does bounce your way great. But we set up, and that's what we talk about great all the time, is we're like, what when the ball doesn't bounce our way, how are we going to react? And that's what I think when the culture comes in a play. I think it's an important point to make too that, and we were talking back there, you have a background in PR, you've done other things, that the things that we're talking about, collaboration, having a system that you believe in and that you stick to. All these things are things that anybody who runs a business out there can apply to their business. It's not just about football. You're a product, you're a people, you're a business, you have a bottom line. All those things, these are things that can drive any company anywhere. 100% because, you know, the thing about it is, whichever industry you're in, whatever field it is, adversity is going to come. Adversity is going to come. The world is too unpredictable, in my opinion, to just think that you're going to have your plans and your plan is going to go to what you thought it was going to be. And so let's just take, for example, like Dan, and his constant emphasis on situational football, take from a personnel standpoint. As much as we say, you know, we like to sign this guy in for agency. We like to draft this guy and this and that. That's fine. That's the easy part. Or if you want to just rank players, that's easy. We spend most of our time preparing for the worst case scenario when we can't get this deal done. Okay, so how do you pivot off of that? These players are not going to be available in the draft. This is going to happen. Like, we spend much more time on the worst case, you know, because the world is too unpredictable, but then you're just making sure you're prepared for the adversity when it comes. How hard was it at the beginning after you would define who you were? You know it would be tough. 313 to 1 that first year. You knew based on what you were taking over was going to be difficult. But even take me to the next year at 1 and 6. Did you ever find yourself questioning, are we doing the right thing? Absolutely. And I was actually a lot more, I've admitted I was naive going into it. I was a lot more optimistic that we were going to be better that first year. And I will say, and that's when it was very vividly clear how great of a coach Dan was, because, you know, we had stripped it down to basically the studs on the roster, especially on the defensive side of the ball. And we didn't have a whole lot to work with, but we were competitive. We were competitive, you know, it was not a lot of games that just got way out of hand. But that next year, when you got to 1 and 6. And, you know, we had made a big trade at the trade deadline and a good player at TJ Hockinson. And all those things, we were trying to make the right decision for the future of our football team. But at the same time, it got hard because those were the dark times. And that's when the culture had to really be at the forefront because, you know, you're hearing all the questions and all the doubts and all this. And me and Dan and everybody within our building, we knew how close we were. Like, we knew it was like we're almost there. We're almost there, we're almost there. And then we just stuck with our vision. We stuck with our conviction. And obviously we have a great ownership that, you know, had the belief in our plan and had the trust in us and the patients and all worked out. Your owner came out at 1 and 5. And backed you and said, I believe in what they're doing. I believe in how they're doing it. And for a lot of people, that was an interesting moment. And I have to say too, if she hadn't been right in the long run, that would have been very difficult for her. But she clearly saw it too. What did you guys see in your plan and in the execution of the plan that wasn't showing up in the standings but was telling you this is right? Yeah. And from the very start, Sheila and Rodwood just through the, through the, let's call it the interview process with myself and Dan, they were very intentional about culture. They were very intentional about what they wanted. And, you know, me and Dan, our visions aligned with them in terms of what we thought was right. And so that's what I think about everybody has to be aligned and everybody has to be on the same page. So Sheila and Rod and the four of, and everybody saw that things were getting better. You know, these young players were developing, you know, a lot of different statistical categories were continually improving. And we had data to show, but also Sheila was able to see like, you know, the locker room is continuing to get stronger. The energy and practice continued to stay at a high level. So it's all those different things that you might not be able to see on the outside. That was pretty vivid ever heading the right direction. You mentioned that they had an idea of what they wanted to be. They had taken some time after the previous regime was let go to just take a look at the organization, decide, what did they want the lions to be? How did they present that to you? And how did that align with what you are idea of running a football organization was? Yeah, it was, it literally, so they were very clear and they were very clear on their intentions on what they were looking for. And it actually aligned perfect because, you know, coming from the Rams for, you know, 18 years or so, I was fortunate enough to go through several different regime changes. And I'll never forget the last, you know, kind of let's call it marriage with Sean McVay and LesNeed. That's when I saw that the culture came together and the collaboration and the synergy and coaches and personnel and everybody, played, everybody was coming together and on the same mission. And that's when I saw that, that's what it is. That's what it is. So that was already my vision. So when they presented to me, it was really music to my ears. You mentioned your time with the Rams when you were a scout, when you were going around talking to people from other teams and invariably you talk about how they do business. Were there times when you heard people say things and you say that's not it? And because I imagine you like to borrow from the things that work. But you also learn from the things that you hear from other people that do not work. Yeah, funny. I'll say it to myself. I might not say it to them because I don't want to help them out. But yeah, no, and you know, often what it is is I feel like I don't want to say them being scared, but I hear things being done the same way. And so when I hear somebody say, look, we're going to make sure we're going to go to every single off. And we're going to do this. And that's like, well, that's the safe kind of cookie cutter route. But we believe in, you know, like, why are you doing this? And just because something has been done for so long doesn't mean that that's the way it has to be. And that just goes into your processes and your evolution and all that stuff. But at its core, and we're going to talk about players in a moment, you have to know who you are. Yeah. And that doesn't bend. That's what I've gotten from you since you've arrived. That's what I've gotten from Dan since he's arrived. And the one thing that always shows that is you say, not everybody can be a lion. Yeah. What do you mean by that? Well, look, it's, and we say this to the team, it's hard to play here for us. It's hard because what we do is we preach the heart of road and take into the heart of road because of those adversity moments that always sit in our preparation for that adversity. And it is a strain. And that's why we preach like we used to talk about the talent of a player, basically, speed and explosiveness, strength, and all the size, height, weight, speed, all that stuff. And we saw say, that's the ceiling of a player. And then we should talk about, though, we'll be saying the intangible qualities, competitiveness, and toughness, and drive, and desire, and all that. We say, OK, that's a floor. Well, we did a lot of studies and research about who are the players that have really succeeded. And it was the guys that had those high intangibles, may not have had the highest talent level. So we actually reversed and said, those intangible qualities are the ceiling. Now, there's a baseline of talent that you have to have to play in the NFL. But once we really started to put even more of an emphasis on those intangible qualities, those are the things that we mean about it is hard to be alive. We've seen you celebrate in the draft room. I think some of that goes to what you're talking about. Now, there's so much that goes into your decision to draft a player. When we see you pump in your fist and high-fiving guys, that's because of how much work you've put into deciding that guy can be a lion. And when you get one, it means something. It's significant. Yeah, it is. Literally, it's probably about nine to 10 months of work that we do put into, let's call it, a draft. It's literally a thesis that you're turning. And you really don't get the answers to it for a couple of years down the line. But it's so much work that starts with the endless amount of film. And you can never watch enough in endless live looks in all the meetings. And I mean, it is around the clock. And we have a really good process. But to get all of the work that's necessary done, it takes about nine to 10 months. And so when you kind of, and like I said about the world is unpredictable, new information is actually coming in daily, like even a week before the draft. You think, oh, the draft board said, well, we're all saying, hey, hey, it's in the barn. Something else happens. Something else comes out. And if you're stubborn and you don't adjust to that new information, then you can kind of put yourself in a tough spot. So it's so much work that goes into it. And then we kind of just have a plan. We prepare. Hopefully it aligns right. Sometimes it doesn't. You got to pivot. We prepare for those, too. But when you finally just get that pick of all that hard work and just obviously happy for the player, too. You have, we talked about it today. Talk to so many fans. You feel their passion. And you feel their appreciation for what you've done because for a long time, this organization was not headed in the right direction. Did that give you pause at all? Did the history of the Detroit Lions give you pause as to whether or not you'd be able to come in here and turn it around? No, actually it didn't. You know, the only thing about Detroit that gave me pause is the weather. Because I've raised in the South and spent time out in the West Coast when the team. But really just the weather. But I will say, regardless of what the history was, whether a lot of wins, a lot of losses, whatever it is, I knew I had a job. I had to do regardless. So it wasn't going to change what my commitment and my work and my ethic and my drive was going to be regardless. I actually thought the history coming into it was actually more, it was more of a cherry on top. Like that was the sweetener. And so then it's like, look, we're confident in what we're going to do. And then when we get this thing turned around, it's going to be even more better. So it was actually kind of the reverse, actually. So for people who may be going into a situation where a company has struggled, that doesn't dictate the future. You dictate the future. Yes, absolutely. You got to be confident in your plan. You got to be convincing your plan. And look, and this is the other thing I would say. I've read two books. I read a lot of books. But it's two books that really you would say they're contradictory. But I read a book called Grit. And I've also read a book called Quit. And Grit, obviously, say the course, persevere. Keep it going. The quit was, if what you're doing, and what you keep persevering through, and you keep doing it over and over again, is not working, then you need to self-excess and examine your plan and see if it needs to change. And so that's one of the things that we incorporate with us is that, hey, look, we do a lot of after-action reviews for every phase of our process. And then we have an evolution time period of, like, let's look at everything. Let's look at what didn't work, what did work. How can we evolve it off of that? Because I truly believe the NFL is so hard. I say all the time, if you're current, then you're behind. So winning is great. But if you have a failure, that presents an opportunity. Because it gives you a chance to look and say, what happened here? Why didn't this work? Stubborn is to just keep doing, as you mentioned, maybe in Quit. Keep doing what you're doing, because you think it's right, not assessing possibly changing it just a bit. Yes, absolutely. And look, you don't have to change who you are. You're either driven or not. You're either believe in hard work or not. You either believe in, like, staring at first in the face or not. That's the internal in a wiring. But your processes might have to make need a tweak or an adjustment. So I do think it's very important every single year whether you have success or not. You have to look at, don't wait till it starts this spiral down. It might be too late. You might not have enough time to dig out of that. So I think it's vitally important. So even if the success that we've had, we've gotten better and better and better. There's not been a year that's gone by, but we have not self-assessed and looked at, you know, what can we do better and what do we need to tweak? So when you're hired, the coaching search was already pretty far along, but you did get an opportunity to speak to some of the candidates. What was in that conversation with Dan? And it's probably a lot of things. But what was in that conversation with Dan that told you, yes, he's the right guy. Man, it really was two things, Dan, for one. So I had just completed my second interview. And the first conversation, he rattled off like my core components of my vision. And I was, when he started talking, goes, you know, no ego, collaboration, you know, like everything. And I'm like, did he get a copy of my presentation deck or something like that? But he truly was. So it was that, on top of, we had this very long discussion about player development. And just what all has to go into developing a player. And that alone, it was just really a match made in heaven because I still, to this day, being that we didn't truly know each other before then, I still look, I asked ownership, like, how did you know? I still ask myself to this day because we have something pretty unique, pretty special. Yeah, no doubt about it. And his relationship with the players, you can look at it, boss, employee, however you want to look at it, is so important. And to me, I see it as his consistency. Players always know what to expect out of him. He's going to give you honesty. And he's always there for your best interest, at least from the outside looking at you. Absolutely. Because if that relationship between a player and the coach doesn't work, if there isn't trust between employee and boss, it doesn't work. And so just that relationship for a second. That is probably the most vital part. And look, that part trust, you have to see it. Like, you can't say, you can't say trust me. Oh, I'm going to take care of you. No, it has to be tangible evidence of, in the consistency, like you said, there's got to be tangible evidence and consistency of that. And in the other part is that, you know, Dan being in the players shoes as well, and being able to relate to those players and say, look, this is late in the season. I know how your bodies are feeling. I trust me. I've been there before. You know, this is the third preseason game. Like, I know what you're feeling. And so that alone, but that in the transparency, in the honesty, you know, you earn a lot of respect because rather how sunny or dark it is at the end of the day, you're being transparent. You're being honest to benefit the player. Because if you're not being honest and you're telling players not performing or, you know, Nesah here's something else, but you don't want to hurt feelings or this or that, you know. And those are the tough conversations that you got to have. So you guys are hired and we in the media say, okay, well, who has final say between you and Dan? And you guys say, we both do. And then we say, okay, yeah, okay. But who has final say between you and Dan and you say, we both do? And that has worked. And I don't think that's the norm. Please correct me because you're much more up to date on front offices around the NFL than me. It's a unique relationship. It's very unique. No, it's not the norm across, at least even in my, you know, what I know about other organizations, but it is unique set up. But I do think, like I was talking about about ownership being very intentional about what they were looking for and the culture and collaboration and working together, being that we both have it and we both have to make the final decision together. It's even more in force. It's even more like, look, we have to make this decision or it's not going to be made. And so it's really just, it's really a unique set up because we're cut from the same cloth. And I'm sure that that's what ownership and Rod Wood knew when they hired the both of us is that, you know, they knew that we were very much alike. We had that conversation. We kind of found that out. So it just works because we don't have a lot of, we don't have a lot of disagreements. And when we do, it's really, it's not anything negative, anything, it's more learning experience. How do you resolve them? Because I mean, there has to be some. There has to be some like, he thinks one way, you think, yeah, there, how do you resolve them? Yeah, absolutely. Me and Dan are so open-minded and neither one of us, like I talked about no ego, neither one of us, going to something, trying to win, trying to win a debate, trying to win an argument, trying to, you know, look, I can tell him what I see, he tells me what he sees. And I like that because he will tell me something that maybe I didn't think about. And I'm like, wow, he's right, or vice versa. And there's been situations where we'll have something where, you know, we're a little bit, you know, different on, you know, maybe a player or something. And I think we've kind of moved on. I'm still thinking about it throughout the day, throughout the night, come back and Dan, my walk him off the said, you know what? Just a, and I'm like, I was thinking about the same thing. And then it just, you know, but usually we always come to and agreement, but it is very unique just because, neither one of us have any egos. I have a producer, I've worked with him for 26 years, I think he's the best in the world, but there are times where disagree will fight like brothers. Do you guys get angry at each other, but then it comes back around? I can't remember a time where, I can't remember a time we've actually had any type of disagreement that way. And we're both very passionate guys and very emotional guys, but it hasn't really heightened, because again, we have so much mutual respect for each other, but it's just when it comes to making the right decision, we're so open-minded and because of the respect we have for each other, we listen to each other with such intent and respect. And because I know he's gonna have a completely different insight that I might not be thought of, or it might just be aligned, but that's why I think it's never really, we've never drove in home mad at each other. At least I don't think. Chris Spiegelman talked, I was with him in an event, he talked about the structure of the organization, and he said one of the things that really makes it work is everybody's doors open to different ideas. And Chris being Chris talked about the fact that he might have an idea and go talk to a coach, doesn't get the reply he looks for, then Chris will go back and talk to the coach again, doesn't get the urge, and then somebody will find he's like, Chris, that's enough or not. But the important thing is, when the door is open for people to go in and express an idea, there has to be more buy-in from everybody involved. Absolutely, we wanna make sure that everybody knows that they have a voice. And I think that's extremely important. Yes, does it promote buy-in? Yes, but look, one thing, one of the things that's like a big thing in our building, especially in the Person Out Apart Me, because you have so many different opinions, in views, on players and stuff is, I preach the lone wolf. I encourage the lone wolf. And so that's why it's very important that everybody knows that they have a voice and to not be scared to speak up, or make sure that the doors open and to come in to my office or Dan's office and actually voice their opinion, because what you don't want is, it's everybody, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, and then you got the conformity experiment going on where now it's that one no. But everybody said yes, and it's like, oh, everybody said yes, I don't wanna be the person saying no. And so that can be dangerous. I get that can be crippling because that one no, that might be that person, their reason for the no, that might be the one thing that might have been the key factor in the decision. And so that's why I think it's very important to make sure that everybody knows that they have a voice and again, I constantly encourage the lone wolf. Your team president, I'm gonna use the word here, describes you as being somewhat maniacal when it comes to watching tape, over and over and over and over again, of a given player, just constantly looking. I know that's because you're driven to succeed, but one thing that I find interesting about that is, to me that also sets a tone. I have the top of the organization that that's how we work here. And you're not gonna ask anybody else to do anything that you're not willing to do to yourself. Not gonna ask anybody to put in more work than you're willing to do yourself. And I have to imagine that you being that way helps others understand what it's gonna take to succeed. Yeah, I mean, I would hope, like look, you also wanna lead by example. But when I'm in there long nights, if it's 9, 10 o'clock at night on a Tuesday or Wednesday, and it's not many people left in the building, I'm not doing it because I am trying to make sure everybody sees me late. I'm doing it just because like I said, I'm trying to get it right. And I know that that's what I have to do. I watch so much film because that's where all the answers are. It's just how you gonna make time to watch it all. But I do think it is good to that other people see that my light's still on, my door's still on, like I'm still doing those things. And I do think the other thing that we try to do is we try to make sure that everybody in the organization understands how important their roles are and making sure like we don't assign duties or assignments, we get people ownership. So it may be a duty or something, but no, you own this. So when someone owns something, they kind of take care of it in a different light. But just making sure that a scouting assistant bringing in lunch on a Saturday meeting where we're going eight to eights, that scouting assistant understands like, look, if you didn't do that, we wouldn't have the efficient meetings, we wouldn't be fuel, we wouldn't be thinking right. And I tell them that, I don't tell them that just to make them feel good, because no, it's true. It's true. So I think all the things are very good to everybody, understood. Back to discipline for a second. You've got a way that you're doing things. You draft and develop. You've done a great job of drafting players. Then this coaching staff has taken those players, they develop them and you see the core of this team. It is players that have been brought in by your organization. There's another way to do it. And some teams do it by going out and winning the league in March. They'll spend a couple hundred million bucks. They get headlines. It's fun. The fans get fired up. Now you have spent some money and free agents, but you've not been the team that's gotten the biggest headlines in free agency. You get questions about it. I imagine it would be fun to just whip out the checkbook and start writing it and bringing guys in. But there's a discipline to not doing that, because that goes back to maybe the quick fix and not being aligned with your core values. How hard is that to always hold that line? It is hard. It's especially in the early years. When we're going through those dark times, the 313 and 1, the 1 in 6, like the 21, halfway through the 22, that's when it was like, do you just give all these draft picks and get this player and do trade deadline and all that. But it is hard to stay disciplined. What it really is is because we've had, since we've had the big trade with golf staff or at the very beginning, we've had an influx of picks. And we already said, we didn't know that that trade was coming. Me and Dan were aligned and the draft and develop. Well, we've been fortunate enough to hit on a lot of these draft picks. So it's different. Some teams are in position to spend a lot in free agency because they don't have those second contracts looming, where we, or kind of in the reverse, we have these second contracts looming. And now it's like, well, you've got to be disciplined financially. And you don't even have the leeway to whip out that big paycheck in free agency. But what I always say too is, you know, I know free agency is like the first calendar events on the NFL calendar after the season ends. And everybody's excited. And it's like, free agency, free agency. Good guys. And free agency is a little bit of a haunted house. It is. Because you don't know as much as you would like to know about every single player. And you know, players that are kind of might be more on the downside. And now you're trying to forecast and predict where the draft is a little bit more of a safe house. Good to take some audience questions just a moment. But I do want to ask you this because I know we have a lot of Lions fans out here, just a general football question. What has you most excited about the 2025 Detroit Lions? You know what? The moves that we did in the guys that we were able to bring back in terms of free agency and the draft. And it's fine. I was just doing kind of inventory check again yesterday, just looking at it kind of vertically in terms of what we lost. And we lost some good players in terms of what we added. And we got so much younger. We got so much younger. So I feel like as much as we've had this youth from the start, I felt like we were able to replenish this youth and still remain the core veterans that we need from a leadership standpoint. So that's really saddened to have that injection of youth. Let's grab some questions from the audience out there. I know we got a mic coming around. All right, guys, we have time for just a couple questions here. We're going to go over there first. Dana's got it. Make them quick, though. We're a little tight on time. So hi. My name is Seth Kaufman. I work at Amazon. And an NFL team is about the same size from year to year. A lot of the companies here are growing. How would you differentiate the value of culture or the path to culture between companies that are staying the same size and companies that are growing? In terms of scaling and growing, yeah, I do think that I will go back to, I do think the culture in which you believe your culture should be, should stay consistent and stay intact. I'll go back to what I was talking about about the review of the processes that are in place. And so constantly reviewing your processes, I think that's necessary because, like I said, it's growing, it's scaling. You might not even know it's growing and scaling. And so I think it's very important that you just have to make sure you get that new information, you get that new, you got to update your beliefs. I would say and make sure your processes are updated. I would imagine too if you're growing, some of that gets back to what you talked about too. Not everybody can be a lion. Not everybody can work for your company if you want the right people in there. Absolutely, that's a great point. And that might minimize your growth a little bit too, as well. But I understand, you know, you want to grow as a company and you want to scale in all this and that. But, you know, everybody's not fortunate enough to be added. So, you know, that's another one that might keep it down a little bit. Gentlemen, question over here. The other way. Here you go. Found me. Early on, did you have to identify personnel that would be willing to buy into your culture despite not necessarily getting immediate success? Or is that something the culture was able to kind of foster quickly? Yeah, you know, there was, at least we heard that there were some different things before we got there. But yeah, I do think that there was buying, you know, from different people that had to be done. And really, again, me and Dan just tried to do what we believe is right, but also empower everybody to have a voice and to speak up and to not be scared. But at the same time, you know, you say, you want to get the right people on the bus. And if you're giving everybody those opportunities to empower and be empowered and have their voice and all that. But you still have the gossip at the water cooler of, you know, I don't know what this guy's doing. This and that, then, you know, that might make some tough decisions, you know, to make sure you got the right people on the bus. But yeah, the buying definitely was a big part of it. And how much has changed now? One thing I said to Amin Roth, guys like him have made playing football that Detroit cool. It's a desirable place now, right? Yes, it has been fascinating to hear. Especially you hear it from agents a lot, you know, when free agency comes around to say that, you know, oh God, really wants to be, or the agent saying, I really want my kind to be there because that's a great situation in this and that. And we didn't hear that in the first few years, but it's been really cool. That's an awesome. All right, we'll ask questions. All right. I, Clint Wiles, lifelong Detroit Lions fan. Thank you for everything you've done for the city. Could not be prouder to be a Detroit. Thank you. Where you guys were a few years ago to where you are now. Does that change your approach of the type of player that you look at? Now that we've gone from being the hunters to the hunted, does that kind of affect the type of guy you're looking for? Does that make you re-approach like you talked about flipping the paradigm, but does that affect your decision making at all? Yeah, that's a fair question. You know, me and Dan, and I do think that this has helped me talk about culture, we have always stayed the same in terms of what type of player that we're looking for. And everybody's on board with that. Everybody's aligned. Everybody knows what type of player that we're looking for, which I think is made things a lot easier. The only thing that has kind of tweaked a little bit as it's kind of gone along is this is the first time that we had to truly look at. You know what? This guy is a little bit more developmental. He might need a little bit more time. And I don't even know if he might even make the roster. You know, like we really like him. We like to add him. So as the roster has gotten better and as we've improved, those are the only kind of tweaks that we've had to make, which I think is a good problem to have. All right, Brad, final question. And all these companies have to look at this the future. You have to see what's on the horizon. You have to look at salary caps. You have to look at losing coordinators, which you just lost, two, changing landscape of the game. How much time do you spend not just looking at 2025, but 26, 27, and pushing things forward? Yeah, a lot of time actually. You know, when we get into free agency and, you know, well, we have this much cap space. Or it might be public information. Or we have this much, you know, dead money. Or this and that, you know, that's the unique thing about us right now is that we're constantly looking at, okay, yes, we have this right now this year, but we have this coming up. And then we have this coming up next year, and we have this coming up next. So, and that's really, that's really the big part of my job is, you know, yes, you have to manage the current, but you have to make sure that you're in position to make the right decisions for the future as well. And it's hard. It's forecasting and trying to predict the end of the movie. It's, it takes a lot of work. And most people just kind of watch the movie and hope we make the right decision. Popcorn. Yeah, the Popcorn and watch the movie. Ladies and gentlemen, he's made a lot of great decisions. Got the Detroit Lions back on the hunt. And it is an exciting time to be a football fan here in Detroit. Brad Holmes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, guys. He's Dan Miller, everyone.