# Video Information

**Title   ** : We Can't All Design iPhones: Conrad Bastable on the West's Industrial Future (Hyperlegible 006)  
**Uploader** : Not Boring Radio  
**Duration** : 1:34:46  
**URL     ** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6wc2ENUCdqA  

---

## Transcription

 Hello and welcome to episode 6 of Hyperlegible and not boring radio production. Today, I have the privilege of talking to Conrad Bastable about his epic essay for Saking Industrialism. He's been thinking about this essay and about what it takes to industrialize for months and just happened to hit publish in the midst of a loud and urgent, tariff-driven conversation on the topic. I first came across Conrad's writing about six months ago when he wrote monetization and monopolies, which argued that monopolies can be pretty good actually, backed by a bunch of arguments and anecdotes that hadn't me nodding my head the whole time. This piece is similar. He takes a thoughtful, measured evidence and history-based approach to what has become a charged topic that hasn't had maybe a lot of reasoning and rationality around it. We discussed why the EU's regulations have benefited China, how China was able to build up its electric platform, what it can do now that it has such a platform, and what it would take for the West to build a mental electrification platform of its own. Tariffs aren't bad, he argues, but they're certainly not enough. This conversation is the longest that we've had in the history, the sixth episode history of Hyperlegible. So, I'm going to let Conrad take it away and explain it to you as opposed to trying to describe more of it myself. But before we get there, I'd like to introduce our sponsor, Readwise. Hyperlegible is sponsored by my friends at Readwise, who build software that helps you get the most out of your reading. I've been using Readwise for years to support the newsletter, my general curiosity, I just kind of save anything that I'm reading that I know that I'm going to want to come back to, and now, this podcast. If you like listening to podcasts like Hyperlegible, you'll love their reader app. It's like pocket, but next generation, with Best in Class highlighting, annotating, AI and more. It also supports not only web articles, but YouTube, newsletters, PDFs, ePubs, and even X threads. If you want to give it a try, go to readwise.io slash Hyperlegible. That's readwise.io slash Hyperlegible, where you can set up a free account and get instant access to all of the essays that we discuss here on Hyperlegible. You'll find articles from Tina Hutt, a top memoria, Julian Lair, Alex Danko, Parakeet, and now you'll find Forsaking Industrialism by Conrad Bastable. Conrad, welcome to Hyperlegible. Can you summarize Forsaking Industrialism in like two minutes? Yeah, I'll do my best. Maybe, maybe not. I think I basically wrote the essay trying to lay out a lens or framework or a case, and it's long, but that the West, Europe, vis-a-vis America is like the undercurrent of the essay, but Europe in particular had the opportunity to be an industrial leader or a serious industrial player across the board in a lot of ways that it has sort of squandered through a combination of intentional hostility and unintentional aphacy. And instead, it sort of ended up seeding much of its industrial platform to China and funded the rise of China, which we might sort of euphemistically call an unaligned geopolitical power these days if you're in the West. And I do these deep dives. I look at electrification, the change from industrial, like internal combustion engines into electric vehicles, e-bikes, look at a couple of companies, took about venture capital. We do look on like IRR and how the nature of capital investment makes it very hard to compete with private capital. And then kind of at the end, or maybe the undercurrent of the whole thing is I take issue with some of the sort of prevailing liberal neo-conservative orthodoxy around markets and trade. And I'm like, this is all wonderful, but sort of at T plus 1 or like T plus 10, you get a lot of domestic turmoil and political polarization. And ultimately, you're all going to end up with policies that are way worse for growth and productivity than you want it anyway. And so maybe you should just try making stuff. You did it. So we're going to dive into like a ton of details here. We joked before we hit the recording on this that like there's just no way we're going to get through this in an hour. So we'll see how long it goes. And I'm going to actually try to make you, and then at least a little bit of an optimistic tone. We'll see. Is there anything that we can do? But before we get there, you don't write often. And then you drop these like deep, super well-reasoned, super well-researched pieces. The last one that you wrote is when I discovered you, monetization and monopolies. What is your process? Because it's like nothing. And then like one of the best things I've read in a very long time. I think so one of the things I say somewhere on my little website is that I sort of commit to not not publishing anything unless I feel like I have something to say, which is like wonderfully freeing. You know, like I think if I really had to put content out, I could probably do like one every other month, but I have a job in a family and I love these things. And like, you know, I think I kind of commit to not putting things out. And the way that I write things, a friend of mine jokes, he's like always astounded, I can basically do like three to six thousand words in a setting. So like the essays are like six to twelve thousand words. So I can sit down and write, call it four five thousand words in one draft. But that only works if I already know like the rough shape of the argument, what I'm going to say, like the outlines or whatever. So usually in a week I can have, I'll have the essay done. But all the magic happened in like the six months that I wasn't publishing anything before then. And that's just like talking with friends. I mean, I know you read a lot. Obviously, like you look at the podcast, I just sort of continue, you're just continually consuming the hubbub of what's happening out there. And I'm kind of just always looking for where my, my world view of my mental model kind of conflict with kind of prevailing things that I think smart people are saying. And once that like rubs enough, usually I'm like, oh, there's something I could write on this topic. And then it's still not enough to actually write the essay. Then I'll just wait for like a personally motivating hook that like makes me feel like actually, subjectively, emotionally invested in the thing. And then I'll sit down and write five thousand words about how annoying it is. You know, like what the one you talked about is like some, some Google search thing was just going horrifically wrong on my phone because I couldn't read the news article because there was like four different popups like back to back. And I was just like, what happened to the internet, you know? With this, there's this sort of this similar story that happened. And once I have that boom, I'll sit down, you know, within a couple days, I'll have the first draft of it. And then it'll take maybe a month, month and a half of editing, editing is always the hard part because you got to, you got to make it sound consistent and coherent and take the bits out and put the bits in and go find little stories that support and little anecdotes. And then you find something you wrote was maybe the wrongs, you change it blah, blah, blah. But yeah, the process is very fun. Honestly, it's, I do nothing for six months and I just till I get annoyed by something. And then I write the essay. I love the idea of kind of waiting for the hook. Do you have like, do you have one idea for this? Did you have an idea that you're going to be writing something about industrialism and all of that? And then like, you got the hook and you're ready to go or you're waiting for like a general hook to come and kind of inspire you. I try in the piece very hard not to talk. It's like the publication date was like an accident I'd been saying for a week I was going to publish it. And then it was like this like the day that tariffs go to announce to something. It was like, oh, wow, how convenient. But I'd been planning to write explicitly about the sort of the subtitle had come into my head like tariffs and not enough or something like that was in my head from November for like obvious reasons like I knew this administration was going to try and do something. I'm like, I'd written about this in 2018, 2019 and 2020 in various like oblique ways. And so I was like, I should write about this because I think nobody gets it right. Everyone's kind of wrong. Like that maybe the goals are admirable. The policies are wrong or something like that, which is like the opposite of the sign that everyone else has on both of those things. And then it's like I even had like a first two paragraphs written out or three paragraphs written out in like November. But I was busy and I wasn't really working on it. And then I bought a dirt bike. I bought a KTM, which if you read this, there's like a whole case study on KTM. And I was writing the dirt bike in the fall with some friends and that was a lot of fun. And then I couldn't write over the win tics I live in New England and it was called in Frigian snowy. And so I was looking at, okay, when it's when it's when it thaws in the spring, what can I buy to write on my backyards and my neighbors don't shoot me. And I was like, oh, they have these ebikes now that are like kind of like dirt bikes, but they don't make a lot of noise so your neighbors don't get mad. And I was like, I've got one acre in the backyard. I like make some trails that would be great. So it's like, of course, it's like snowy. I'm stuck inside. It's like my kids gone to bed. It's after dinner. I'm like just researching these ebikes. And I'm listening to podcasts and I'm like finding stuff. And I learn about the industry and I'm trying to find out stuff about the companies that make them and you can't find anything out. And of course, in my head, I have this essay that I want to write. And it's like, oh, there's these three brands, but actually they're all kind of like this weird shell corporate layer on the underlying factory. And actually I listened to a podcast by this American company that's trying to make an American electric dirt bike. And the founders like, yeah, you just go to China. You go to the factory. You go to the city that makes bikes. You find the factory there. They give you a brochure. You point out what you want. And they mix and match and you order 1,000 of them. And you sell them. Congrats. Now you're an industrial producer. And he's like, we don't want to do this, right? And I'm just like, the dots are just connecting in my head. So I'm like, I want to write about tariffs. His is thing, all the stuff's going on. And then KTM goes bankrupt. And I'm like, I've got it. I've got it. This is the thread. This is the case study. This is what I'm going to write about. You kind of just answered a question that I was going to ask, which is like how you come up with all of these sources that are just in places that I never would have thought about looking. But I guess live an interesting life. And then you'll be looking for electric bikes in the middle of the winter. Tell me about KTM. What happened there? What was the bankruptcy? What was the story? I think there's like a story that will be written generally, which is like very common and very standard. And it'll basically just say, like, oh, management's terrible. The CEO's a self-interested greedy, whatever terrible people, the management's terrible. I think that's the normal story when these things happen. And to some degree, no offense, but it's probably true. You company doesn't go bankrupt unless you fail. And your job is to lead it to make things work no matter what, right? But there are scale differences in these things. So KTM is this company with thousands of European employees and billions of revenue that are a leading manufacturer of the bike motorcycles of all kinds. And they're based in Austria. Kind of a gem of the European manufacturing. And they've certainly come up with a couple of decades from nothing. They've done a good job. But that's like the veneer's story. It's like, OK, they've made some mistakes. Something about overproduction. COVID happened. COVID was really good for people who make these kinds of things because we printed. And on godly amount of money and consumers got it all credit was low. People go by debt bikes tons out. And KTM kept producing stuff. They didn't turn it down when interest rates went up. Interest rates go up. People stopped buying cars and dirt bikes. And then they run out of money because they're making stuff they can't sell. That's the kind of the veneer of the normal story. But I think the underbelly of the story is basically that the EU regulatory environment, the framework, everything top to bottom, just applies tremendous fixed costs to doing business there. And you speak to anyone in any industry. This is not even about industry. This is just true. This is functioning why islands economy exists, which everything about elsewhere is. Just any way to wrap around some of the fixed costs is massively beneficial. And if you're an industrial producer, you make stuff and you have to sell it. You don't need an MBA to figure out the unit economics of fixed costs up here. How do you reduce those per unit? You need to make as much as possible. And so what you see is, as with almost everything that the EU does, it's kind of optimized for the status quo. The status. It's a great little thing, so long as nothing changes and you're already a big player at scale. But it's very hard to get to scale because you get destroyed by these fixed costs along the way. And so KTM is trying to ride the COVID momentum into effectively reducing the impact of fixed costs on that business. Get to scale as quick as possible. And then there's some sort of virtuous cycle of political impact on the thing. Because once you're big enough, maybe then people start listening to you. Maybe then you can have some impact and maybe then they don't make your stuff illegal to produce. Which what happened with KTM? So they produced all these bikes and then as they were going bankrupt, the 250,000 of bikes they hadn't sold would now illegal to sell. Like you can't sell them in Europe. So it's like, you're trying to scale. You're trying to do all this stuff. And then the people in Brussels are just like, yeah, by the way, you can't sell this. And anyway, so I'm sure the company, these things that they live and die again, it'll be reborn and they'll get born and saved and turned into whatever the equity holders will get wiped. But just kind of a classic story of prioritization in my mind. How? I guess there's a couple of things about the EU regulations that I want to talk about. One is that they just like almost to your in your essay, you kind of argue that they like just send a bunch of demand, just like straight to China, straight out of the EU. So that's kind of one probably unintended consequence. The other is just as like EU regulations are the most stringent regulations. Is the thing that sets the pace for the rest of the market. And I would imagine then like, pushes more demand into China. So how does that all work together? The first thing I'm like sending to mod out is basically like, okay, so let's say something's changed. Like let's say actually the thing that was selling in 1990 is no longer the thing you need to make a quarter of a million of a year. Right? Well, who's been making these new technologies? Who's been doing this? And to the extent that that player exists, they need to compete against the fixed cost regime regime that exists in Europe. So it's basically guaranteed to not come from Europe. Or like to the extent that anything changes, like you know, so like 10, 20 years later, something changes in new technologies, like batteries, electric vehicles, right? Like there's no way the mining, the infrastructure, the underlying technologies, like the network ecosystem of companies you would need to make that. Which did exist in Europe like 100 years ago. That's where all these companies started. There's no way that's so so so basically the the sort of regulatory framework which is designed as, you know, it's designed to some sort of protectionism. That's kind of why they do it partially, right? They like favoring their status quo of big companies. But it means that when anything changes, it's guaranteed to come from outside of Europe. So the capital goes out. You got to buy these TV bikes from China. And like maybe it's not the sexiest, most performant bike out there. But like, they're pretty good at making stuff these days actually. Like they make some good stuff at very large scale. Because of course they like you do it. You make millions of anything a year at scale. And you make profit off it. You'll get better at it. And so yeah, that's that's the mind going out. And the the intolerant windsting, there's this it's just like one of these little nuggets that Nassim Talib said like years and years ago. And it's just like stuck in my mind. Because it's such an interesting, counterintuitive framework of like the most intolerant winds. And it was about like I spoke about in the essay. It's about like how everything is kosher that you can buy even the lemonade in the grocery store. The EU regulations basically just like they've pushed, especially in engines, automotive transport. They push the whole market to sort of comply with them. They are the market, the global leader in regulatory frameworks. And this is like privacy, right? You're going to website. You've got to click some pop up, right? Like thank you. And you know, and genuinely maybe the answer is thank you. Because maybe without the EU, all of our data would just be like horrifically exploited and sold by like Chinese American tech companies. Like that there is, I understand the spirit of maybe where they come from or how they defend these things. Yeah, maybe. But the reality of like doing this is that like somebody has to comply with what your framework that you've built. And it is not going to be for all the things we just talked about is not going to be a domestic producer. And so it's like your, you had this opportunity. That's what's so tragic about it. It's like they had the opportunity to build. This is why I'm like the like they could have been industrial leaders and almost every sector because everyone was going to comply with their things all that would their regulations. All they had to do was encourage. Well, they had to do a lot of things actually. But but if they'd been able to cultivate these firms domestically, it could have been a huge boon to Europe. And I suspect there would have been lots of positive knock on effects. But instead, what's like the easiest way to do? I mean, I had this like anecdote in the essay that's like maybe a little harsh and little spicy about like, you know, BMW just, they have 15 years to figure out how to get five million batteries a year in their cars or they or they could just see declining revenues and profits and, you know, not make cars, right? Like they could just they could just quit, which is like, okay. So so they're, what are they going to do? Who in Europe has been making them give them five million batteries a year? One of the big questions I want to get to the BMW one because I love the way that you wrote it. But one of the big questions before we get there is like, how did China get this get this so right? Like you talk about this idea of building kind of like this industrial platform on electrification that they've been able to build kind of over years. What is that platform and how did they get it so right? I think there's like, there's a really there's a there's a danger of like over hyping up your your rivals to some degree, you know, when someone else does something really great, you just want to be like, wow, like no one could compete with whatever sports team, right? Like and I think there is maybe some of this is a little over determined that they're like the the little the the perfect intro storyline to it would be like, yes, so like a number of sort of upper middle class Chinese elites and like the 1920s like well, whenever it was in the 20s, they went that you know, they realized China was screwed. There was you know, lots of very bad things happening. They went over to Europe. They did these work steady study programs like Deng Xiaoping was in Renault making cars and in a steel mill with a bunch of other future Chinese CCP leaders and like, you know, they kind of they're like, okay, this is industry. This provides jobs for the people. They'd like join the revolutionary party because it's like, you know, revolution or, you know, imperialism are basically options there. They go back to China. They win. They have their revolution. They go full steam ahead on the revolution thing and it's like horrific. Like millions of millions of people die. It goes very bad. And so then you get the choice that like all executives have when when things go that bad, which is like, okay, I can abdicate and go away or I can kind of throw out all the ideology and just like product pragmatism max basically, right? Like, you know, and there's this little little expression about like, there's a metal color, the cat is, it catches mice, right? And you know, maybe maybe this is a very, very bad way to realize the like the right idea, like, you know, having millions of people die because you will like to addicted to ideology. But it is pretty good for having like, at least two generations of leaders pretty committed to pragmatism and like having a sort of national unified, somewhat unified spirit behind the idea of like, hey, if things get better, you know, like that's like the number one thing actually, right? I don't know, I don't know to like the extent to which that story is like really real or not, but I think it's a really good narrative and it's like a nice little window dressing for like the reality, which is basically that like they they ran the playbook that's like the only playbook that has ever been run by any country that's ever achieved like, meaningful status with a population bigger than like, you know, 10, 15 million people or something, right? Like every country has done the same playbook. It's just the ones that do it, then we just we we we we we we we tell everyone else we're doing something else often in the West. But um, you know, like like the the industrial playbook that that China run was run by Japan and Korea around the same times, two great success. It was run by Germany, it was run by England, it was run to some degree by France, it was run by America. Like this is this is the way that wealth has been created at scale for nations since the industrial revolution. It's like a combination of global globalist global markets and domestic production. It's like taking some of the good pots of mechanicalism with the best pots of globalism. You fuse them together and you basically have in house domestic production and then that creates a lot of service labor on top, which is great. You got like your college graduates get labor your like, lowest skilled labor gets jobs. Everyone gets richer. The wealth then creates like capital cycles and it's wonderful. Um, it has lots of ways that it can go bump in the night. But there is basically no other way that any nation has achieved make our whole country rich at scale, right? Like if you're a little island nation, you can be like a trade port or something. But if you're China, like you can't be Singapore actually. Like like Singapore is Singapore because China is China, but China can't be Singapore. At that they need at scale, they got what it like a billion people something. I don't know how many it was 50 years ago, but what do you do? Like how do you make all how do you raise GDP? You know, like like when I was talking about China in like 2018, I think I remember someone was like, oh, but they're only, you know, ranked like 75th or whatever it was on the GDP per capita, like table on Wikipedia, right? I always think those views are so interesting because now seven years later, I checked recently, they're like 15 places higher up, right? And it's like that's a leaderboard, but it's not static. And the part of the goal of this thing is to change your position on the leaderboard. And there are like these moments of discontinuity where you can get pretty severe changes in trajectory happening. You talk about the platform economy, where they ended up now, where you could just like have the people who are able to do all of the things that you need to be able to like build whatever new thing you want to build now. What is the platform economy? Yeah, sorry, I didn't even get to that. I go carried away. But that's the thing like, you know, like so it's, it's in the context of one firm, one company within the borders of like a sort of platonic West and joint stock company, people really understand the benefits of vertical integration in the West. This is like, okay, we kind of get it, right? Like you can look at like the Andrew Carnegie to all the way to the Tesla. Like there's a lot of benefits. A platform, and I use the like these network effects. I use these analogies from social media because we've got two generations Americans who've grown up seeing how you can build a platform like like a Facebook, like a social network, and then you can build a lot of businesses on top of it. And that can create a lot more value than just the one company. And the same sense of platform economy around electrification industrial is the same kind of idea basically. You take the idea, okay, I need to make a lot of things. I want to make a lot of electric cars, right? I am going to in this region, right? Not this, not the borders of this joint stock company, but in this hub, right? I am going to have everything necessary for it happening here in order to reduce as much friction as possible from the from the productivity, from the production chain, from the trade flows, and we're just going to do it all. So that means like, I mean, it's everything, right? It's from like the research, the PhDs, the colleges, the labor, the like that whole funnel is going to be co-located with the factories, the capital investment. We're going to have, you know, we're not going to we're going to do the mining and the raw material stuff ourselves or our companies or things that we have relationships with. We'll do it to reduce the friction between relationships there. We're going to be connected to transport networks. We'll be close to some sort of way to get our goods to our customers. And we basically will have everything necessary for like a fully packaged economy. And it'll be a platform built around, in this case, electrification, regional manufacturing, and you get everything in it. It's like vertical integration of an industry instead of a company. And you have, even like, you know, I think there's sort of Soviet model of like, oh, we have some big company that does it all itself is like getting it very wrong. And so the Chinese strategy is like, you have lots of small companies, you make them fight, you make them compete, you reinvest in the good ones. It's like very sort of like play box. It's like a sandbox of capitalism. But then it's all just functioning within the sandbox of like, okay, there's like 50 million people who live in this region. And like, maybe we're going to move it. Maybe we're going to move the whole thing because there's a slightly better spot actually. Like, right? So like the the bike city that I was talking about earlier, the reason it is where it is is because it's like in the hot land of China because that's where they felt like their industrial base should be sent to because it was harder to like attack militarily like Japan, whatever I'm like, so that's that's in land. That's cities in land where they make all the bikes. And there's like millions of people there. And that's what they do. And then there's a trade network to get it all out. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, it's it's the whole package. It's like, you know, you're like, okay, we do the mining, we do the smelting, the batteries, we control systems. Who's going to make the electrons? Who's making the circuit boards? Right? Like it just like think about all of the different analog semiconductors. Like you need, you need everything. Yeah. And to sandbox, I guess, it's self-contained and an experimental within China, but then it's a sandbox that other people have to come play with this for instance, back to your your BMW example. And I'm just going to I'm just going to read the writing because I like this so much. You're the reality of the real world is that most organizations, including governments, operate hierarchically and focus their attention in a top-down manner on the things that are easiest for them to measure and understand. So when the European bureaucrats want to accelerate the transition to electric power transportation, the smallest possible unit of their society that can that they can interact with is called BMW enterprise value $100 billion. So they take Mr. BMW and they sit him down and they tell him that if he sells any non-electric cars, they're going to shoot him. He protests. He asked for some time to comply 15 years. Who the fuck makes batteries and how do we get three million of them a year? Mr. BMW asked to see your executives the smallest unit within his organization that he can interact with. I just think that's like very, very funny. So where does he go? Why does that happen? And then the where does Mr. BMW turn? Yeah, I mean, you know who he turns to. Actually, the the person he turns to was like a thousand wood subsection that I cut out of this essay to save space. It's its own hilarious thing. And I think you said early like, oh, wait, you get these little stories or something. Let me just let me just tell you this one because it's so it just it is everything. And I I'm very sad I had to cut it out of the essay. So the the state owned enterprise has a Western name called brilliance auto that BMW has to interact with. They make BMWs. They have factories that like BMWs invested in and they make like over half a million year of these things or something. And maybe it's over half a million cars total. But and if BMW wants to sell anything in China, they've got to deal with brilliance auto or that the state owned enterprise. Have you pronounce it? So so I was thinking you know, you saw me earlier with the ebikes. Where did this company come from and what is it? Right? Like isn't that like I mean who picks this one? Right? Like imagine you were you were Xi Jinping and you have to pick one. How do you pick? I mean, how do you do it? And it's it's backstory is incredible. So they it was like a 1990s minibus making company. And and like they were manufacturing a scale transport, you know, like maybe back then the average Chinese consumer couldn't buy a car, but you need a lot of minibus is because the government will buy those to bus. It's like a great actually wonderful development story. Anyway, the the founder of that company becomes the third richest man in China. There's like a Forbes piece you can find about him from 2001, something like that 2000 or 2001. And his factory is going well. And then he then he wants to relocate his factory from where it is right now to a different part of China. So he's like okay, I'm going to move my chip move my factory. I'm going to do a big factory over there. You know, the way these things work, like maybe the local governor will give me some like investment. There's incentives. This is as industrial as mess how works. That happens, but there's a problem. The local governor of where he wants to move his factory to wants him to put it like in a specific spot. And he's the third richest man in China. And he's like, I'm going to put it over there. So they have a little disagreement. And if this was America, maybe the disagreement would be like, there'd be some angry tweets, right? But of course it being 1990s China, what happens is that local governor says, great, I actually now own your entire equity stake in that company. Yeah, like that's my equity now. You, I don't know, I'm going to sue you for corruption or something. And that businessman has lived in exile in America ever since. And that governor was Xi Jinping's primary opponent opposition before his like final season of power in 2012. And that governor is now spending life in prison for corruption, which like probably was corrupt because he did this. I don't know, there's many other things. And that, that like husk of a company, that like corporate shell is the thing that Mr. BMW is forced to interact with. And you're like, why is it a state unenterprise? I don't know. I mean, that's the story. That's amazing. Because I mean, like, you know, reading this piece, there's a risk of to your point kind of like over-celebrating China. There are there are trade-offs that you have to make to be able to get this machine. This is like, it's like horrific. And you're like, oh my gosh, like that's how this, like, but this is kind of like, these are the people we're competing against. This is like BMW is not just competing against this industry, but it's forced to do business with it. And you're like, I mean, I, you know, nobody, everyone's got skeletons in the closet. Obviously, the West and our companies have plenty. But just that little story is, you're like, wow, that's incredible. You like kind of answered another question that I had here because it's like just you just like kind of tactically in writing the piece, like, you talk about Mr. BMW and then you go to the punchline, which is they have to partner with Mercedes and what turns out to be brilliance. But you write in the pieces, state-owned, watch-end, automotive group holdings co-limited. So you have the BMW story. You've like, researchers and learn this and then you like, go back and you make that section about Mr. BMW. Is that like kind of tactically how you're putting this all together? I mean, honestly, it's like, this is not even a unique story. Like, this is this, that's the thing is like, there are like a thousand of these little stories. I just happen to think BMW is a cool, if I have like a couple successful IPOs, I'd like to buy up like a nice one. Like, I think they're cool and I like them. And so that's like kind of interesting hook. They're like a German company, ever-in-a-bought Germany. I think Germany's kind of done a lot of bad decisions lately. So it's like sort of, there's like some irony that I just have like a personal attachment to that whole story, which makes it the one I write about. But it's not even unique. There are like a million of these versions where like, yeah, I mean, like what happened with Alibaba and Jack Marriven, somewhat recently, it's the same, it's the same cycle, right? There's like, there's actually hundreds of them. And it's like, that's the way business happens there and here and that's this system. And so all I had to do was find one I cared about and go read the Wikipedia. The Jack Marriven almost made sense because it was happening at the national level. The fact that like just the local governor is also able to do this is, is kind of crazy, but yeah, this is up, this is what we're up against. While we're like, kind of last little bits on transportation before we move to the rest of the essay, but I just think these like tidbits are so good. What's the deal with with Stark and Seron? And I want you to include something that you hit in a footnote. There's like so much the footnote is like a whole other kind of good essay, the footnote section. But how did Segway's innovation contribute to Seron's dominance? Segway probably was a bad company. I mean, they failed to scale, right? They're like, they didn't hear product market fit. They were kind of like a laughing stock, whatever. But they had some good innovations and they patented some of those innovations. And like, you remember, they had like the walking things that were balanced. But like, imagine what they might have painted inside the electronics of that. So they had stuff. I don't know all that pain is they had stuff around. I know they had stuff around auto balancing. They had stuff around turning things off when they fall over. They had stuff around being able to sense like rotation of a rotational member to calculate speed so that you could like electronically stop your thing from accelerating to like way too fast. If there was a user input that was faulty, they had a bunch of patents around the stuff that were pretty cool. And it's like kind of classic American innovation. And like, that's great. Also, they made some products, but they were trying to make it in the ecosystem that maybe they were doing a bad job. Maybe the ecosystem wasn't friendly. They had a facility and new ham show with like 20 people or whatever eventually after selling themselves. Anyway, so they're struggling. They get bought by investment firm based out of Boston, I think. And there's like some like new story that you can read. I love going whenever you're doing this stuff, like go to Google and type in like the thing you're looking for, but then set like the way back mission, like the finding of Google, the time thing to like 2010. And you just get like the funniest things. And so there's some story from this firm investment firm that's buying segue for like $10, $9 million or something. It's like, like buying it for parts. And they're like, yeah, we're going to double down. We're going to invest, expand manufacturing. It's going to be great. We'll keep jobs here blah, blah, blah. Anyway, they like immediately go to the international world trade courts. And they're like China is infringing on our patents with these e-scooters that they've just started to make in mass production, which is its own separate thing about like an Israeli actually who created the e-scooters took it to a factory in China. And that factory is where all the e-bikes and now made like set like separately or something like that. Anyway, separate tangent. Anyway, so segue is like bought by this firm. The firm goes to sue China for the patents. China instead of like settling, they just buy the company. 75 million bucks. So the investment firm turns $9 million into 75, which is like this wonderful slice of life for why this like free trade system is good because you get lots of great equity return. I mean, if I ever get a return like that, that'd be great. And yeah, within like 18 months, the entire American operation is closed. All the jobs are gone. Everything is deleted. Segway is now just like a brand that you can buy online that's attached to these e-scooters that were being manufactured at the scale of like $2 billion of revenue from Chinese factories that are like awesome. And of course, again, like when you make $2 billion of revenue, these things you make them better. And so like the reality is probably the patents that were being infringed were also being improved because like that's that's how tech works, right? And they make some really cool scooters. I have one. I have a cool scooter. I don't have a second. I'm an extra level phone because I've got the knockoff brand off the knockoff. It's like even better and kind of cooler and kind of rickety, but it goes faster. Segway's gone. The jobs are gone, but you've got a great equity return and like, you know, go get a job below the API somewhere else. Like sorry. And by the way, you can buy your scooter now that's cheaper and it's being manufactured by China. I like say thank you. And that's kind of like the destiny of Segway. It's like China gets the factory. They get all the jobs. They get like two billions of revenue. American equity holders get an incredible return. American labor. I mean, go go work a surfaces job somewhere. I don't know. Good luck getting into your kids getting into college or something. They'd be get like better luck next time. And then the stock piece you asked about stock is this European company. I almost felt bad talking about them because I should talk about dust motomole, but they're just not a production yet. Stock is this European version. And you know, again, as with Europe, like the founder moved from the Nordics, Sweden, I'm going to get it wrong. Sorry. And to Spain, right? Because you can test bikes all year round in Spain. And that's great. It's like the EU wonder story is like you relocate with freely. You start a capital. You start a firm. You're producing stuff. They like are actually like using old latest high quality components. Like they'd like innovating or manufacturing techniques. It's like, it's super cool. And then like, of course, like the regulations, the local government kind of hates them. Like it's like he's like out there complaining. And maybe he's just complaining to the CEO, but like, you know, everyone knows like how tough it is to start a new business at scale in the environment that is that is the European regulatory regulatory regime. And like, yeah, it's not a no wonder that he's complaining about the local government effectively feeling they're trying to put him out of business. And you know, like the end like the end result of 8,000 little things is that his product is twice as expensive and and and at operating at a small scale. And I think the company might make it. They have some really cool stuff. They have product market fit. Even people who aren't usually electric bikes. People are like, no about the product. And like, okay, like, you know, maybe there's some criticisms around some electric bikes from like traditional bike. But like people, but 80 horsepower on a on a electric bike is nuts. Like that's crazy. You don't need that. And so it's like kind of cool. It's like the it's like the Tesla roadstask roads to strategy of like the OG just make a really cool high performance product. And people will you'll get that brand and that performance. So I love it. It just costs twice as much. And it's like, you know, it's tough. I was on an an arc boat recently an electric boat. And it's cool. He's seeing like it's quiet. It turns like crazy. There's thrusters on the side. So actually docking it is way easier. And that's one of the tragedies of this whole thing to me. Like everyone's so excited about AI. And I'm like, I think it's cool. I think it's like a really good software and like, super sass. But I think like the electrification of everything is going to be a way bigger deal, including you have to obviously electrify all the data centers and do all of that. And to not be the best in that is a real travesty to not have that that platform. You know, a lot of the innovation was stuff that we did we did create. I mean, that that is kind of the pitch around the free market stuff is like, Oh, we'll just do the innovation and China can make it for us, you know. But like the reality of making stuff is you eventually you end up innovating yourself as well. Like that's so like, I don't even it's it's it's it's it's it's I think it's tragic. Is there a like wrote a pretty cheesy piece the other day about like us again, it's like this base time and like humans alive in this planet. And like I believe this like humans alive in this planet at this time in this great big universe over 100 billion years is like the most identifying thing on a cosmic scale like it's it's like crazy coincidence that we all live here together. It's really like a different perito frontier that we could get to if we're all just like decided if you like implanted in someone's brain like, Hey, it's actually like really great that China can make all this stuff really really well on the Wii U IP. Like is there a real globalism that has not been tried that actually makes makes sense? I think there's a reasonable case. I don't know what's tough. I mean, you always have to like look at it from the perspective of people. Like and it's it's like kind of the reflexive default to be like to of certain people like like us to be like, Oh, like let's look at the global scale. But you know, like I think I think no matter what what's happened over the last 20, 30 years is like probably the best thing for the people of China that could have ever happened. Like and so you always have to like ask like who's it good for and who's it not. But certainly the I think what you're getting at in the way that you're asking it is the sort of post World War II pre collapse of Bretton Woods era of America. Like the basically the promise the goal, the idea was like Europe's a mess. It's blown itself up. There's no industrial capacity, you know, like depends on mess and we revert the constitution and we didn't, you know, all the same stuff. And we're with the last one standing. And basically if you want to sell American goods, you need people who are rich enough to buy them. Like that's like trade is good. Rich trading partners are really good. That's like, you know, you need them. And they make they help you accelerate your own way up the, you know, the civilizational scale. And so the American hack was we're going to make our trading partners rich it. Like we'll make them rich it. We'll basically help them industrialize their own countries, make them richer and like they'll be able to buy more of us stuff. We'll trade virtuously. We'll police the seas for free. You know, like 10 years ago, Zahim is talking about a lot of this stuff being like the American deal. And like, you know, it created, I would say, two, two and a half generations of like American prosperity, the likes of which she's like, you know, hadn't been seen before and who knows about next. Like pretty good. Lots of turmoil domestically, too. So I'm not saying that the time was perfect. But just like economically, it's a really good pitch and a really good story. The I think like the the tragic underbelly to it or like the the the risk of it is like it kind of also requires in like a sort of paternalistic quasi imperialistic sense, such like a little sketchy like American hegemony. Because like as soon as somebody else is like, okay, well, you guys are making yourselves richer in that virtuous little ecosystem. Like we want a slice. Then the American American pitches like, well, now you need to comply with our rules based international order. Like you've got to comply with what we do. And it works really well until someone else is big enough says no. And then they make it work. And now the whole thing, you're like, okay, it's kind of coming apart at the seams because how do you how do we deal with this? Like how do we you know, and then anyway, China has that part of the world, but they're like America in terms of values and everything else. Is this a problem? I feel like you just have to leave that to the reader. I don't know. It depends, you know, it depends what you're optimizing for and who you're optimizing for and what your answer is. And I have friends who would say yes, it's a big problem. We need American global supremacy. I have friends who would say no, it's wonderful. You know, let them do them. We don't want to be involved. I think I I'll leave it to the reader. Another kind of controversially one that maybe lived through the read and made me up is is the green movement, just really the West kind of being like by China. It is as it inadvertently done more for China than it's done for the environment. Yeah, probably. I mean, who makes the solar panels who does the might? Who's what it depends? It depends. If your if your North Star is good for the environment, right? Like if your North Star is less carbon emissions or whatever, right? Is it not the greatest trade ever? Like wonderful, right? We got what we needed. If your North Star is making China richer, also wonderful. Got what we needed. It's just what happens if your North Star is making Americans or Europeans or Australians then it's maybe not as clear. But and that's what I mean in the priorities. Like this is why my like Pollyanna ish attitude towards this is like why I'm like so frustrated in this moment in time because I'm like we actually got to the point where like you actually to go green, you had to make a bunch of economic sacrifices. Now you don't as much anymore like solar panels are getting cheap batteries are getting good. Like it's all working and now we're now at the point we're going to be like blow the whole thing up. Like finally when we've made all these tradeoffs and it's like starting to be economical, it seems like a crazy moment of time for that to happen just like from a cosmic joke kind of scale. It is but it is it is tragic and funny. It is like tragic comedy, which I think is like a lost, you know, I understand much more now why it was popular with the ancients when life was horrible and the world was exploding because you got a laugh and it's like it's like it's tragic, right? It's a little tragic. So the other, the you know maybe that that one is like up for judgment whether it's good or bad for us whether it has been whether it will be the the other one that I thought was interesting that you talk about is you say that like you know one of our arguments that we make is because we design the iPhones like we're better off and like now we we can ship all the sock factories. I made a joke about sock factories today. Everyone's making sock factory jokes like we ship that all overseas but we design iPhones and so more people just need to learn how to design iPhones. You argue that that doesn't work because one fewer people are needed to actually build tech companies and that one's pretty straightforward but I love the other one which is that few people are actually capable of doing the work and you just like walk me through the whole argument for like why we can't all be iPhone designers. This stuff is hard. Like you know like I mean me not to say that making one in a factory isn't hard but like you know I made Wilhelm or the kid I could probably like kind of figure it out right but like maybe actually my wife would probably criticize my fine motor skills but making stuff is really hard and making valuable stuff like defining stuff. I mean the people who do it are handsomely paid the like the logic of you know people talk about free markets all the time like labor markets are relatively free in America you know like in California you can just like quit one company start working in the competitive next day. I don't know if you can do that in China but like you can just do it and so like you know if they were if they were have many what you know upset the populations in the labor force like so like 150 million people who as of tomorrow could design iPhones as well as everyone else. What do you think would happen to labor markets? Like obviously the price of that labor will go down like the reason you have the fancy house in Redwood City or Woodside or whatever is because it's hard to do what you do or like you've achieved some like you know control over some sort of value capture mechanism. It's hard like it just is it's just hard to do people can't do it. It's good it's fine it's not it's not a sin it's not a tragedy that people can't design iPhones like writing really good software is really hard and making really good. It's nothing wrong with it. It's just you know I think this is kind of like reflexive or it depends on which side of the spectrum you're on but like there is a sense of like you know just it's a skill issue you should improve yourself work harder learn to code learn to design offense police up up by the bootstraps and like you know certainly when I was younger I was and you know trying to learn myself and pull myself up a little bit like I was I love that. It was great it was like motivating it's motivating to believe but like you also have to recognize the reality that not everyone is going to succeed and if you are willing to confront the reality and not everyone's going to succeed you also have to confront the reality that you share like a you share a country with those people who aren't going to succeed at learning how to make iPhones and they can vote and they can express their opinion in writing essays or whatever whatever else lovely things that is they do. Whatever it is they like love before is probably going to be much worse and pretty bad for productivity and outcomes because they want their kids to be better off than they are to just like everyone else on earth and like something's got to give. What happens if if AI 2027 is right and everybody like everyone has an iPhone designer in their pocket like is this even more destabilizing than we think? I don't know I'm really bad at like the sort of I don't know what the what the word is how do you describe the sort of oh like it's not quite doom saying because some of it's like utopian but it's like everything's going to radically change in the future. I generally think these things are like play out more slowly with lots of time for dislocations to impact people and maybe be be addressed and I don't know I'm a believer in AI being pretty awesome I use it it's great but like yeah I making things as hard. It is like kind of funny and I guess we're in the like red queens race maybe is there would just have whatever with China on AI models and so they're going to do it anyway and so we have to do it but if you believe that the Americans advantage is the IP and the design and all of that the way they're like racing to make that like to go away. It's commoditized good. It's actually super ironic in a way that I hadn't appreciated before. Me neither until you just put it like that but yes it is it is it is an interesting throwback to the people who's like oh at least we get to do the high value labor because we are seemingly making that high value labor funny we're essentially like packaging American brilliance in a product and giving it to everybody for like increasingly cheap maybe old that's left at the end of the day is people making socks and factories like maybe that's maybe that's the only thing that's left with the AI I don't know. I'm going to need more feet all right so maybe we can move around you talk about the fact that industrial hubs no longer have to be next to customers but services do now that we're talking about kind of the halves and halves knots how does this impact all of that? I've written about this before so if I'm not if I'm trying to skimming over something just tell me but like I think people generally are very good at having sort of mental models that work you know the same ones that we all got from sort of a just sort of surface level undergraduate education and reading whatever was to general whatever but modeling what happens T plus 1 2 3 and down the road is a little less intuitive for folks and so one of the things that I have been writing about for a long time since I first realized it and there's some good papers that I read a long time ago when I was doing one of these rabbit holes is that like the the benefit of the industrial climb the thing that everyone's done the benefit of global markets globalism with industrial domestic production and all this stuff is that you can sell goods into a global market which is very large for the very rich people who are willing to send you money if you're good to good and the beauty of you know maybe it's American hedge money maybe it's like the trade routes the British Empire created maybe it's whatever China's domestic supply chains the beauty of it all is that like it's pretty seamless the fixed costs are pretty low you can you can make a lot of money making stuff and just selling it to the global market and maybe the global market includes a lot of domestic customers right like we are part of the global market so you can be an American self-american you're selling into the global market because they could have bought elsewhere but the beauty of it is that you like the cost of getting your good from your factory or your Etsy shop whatever it is to the end customer is very low like and even with the massive scale goes right we have these containers and everyone kind of just rediscovered them and thought they were really cool with you as a girl like it's it's it's yeah the box right it's and it's awesome and it means you can put the factory making stuff wherever the hell you want I mean within reason right like don't put it on a mountain but like you can put it ideally it's near a waterway or near a trade route or near trains but like you can put it somewhere where you can then connect it to global trade and global markets and make your money which means you are not constrained by the feudalism of landlords and the sort of rat race for competing for real estate that everyone else gets crushed by you're not constrained to needing to be in a certain place and select for labor which is why like the the industrial revolution had all these industrial towns that just went and got started up somewhere okay we're gonna make it labor lands land cheap we'll make a bunch of free houses everyone who works here can just have a free house because lands cheap whatever it's like a small fraction it's basically the box for housing you know hey if you guys want a job come here factory town boom which now China decided to do it the scale of like cities you know but like you can just do that and well you can't just do it it's very hard but you can do it it is in the sphere of possible in the space of possible outcomes is any random place that is not New York Manhattan real estate can make stuff and sell it into global market which means the sort of like underlying margin profile of the business and also of laborers who want to sell the labor to that business just ends up the wealth that is created from the sale of the product into the global market is less captured by landlords and sort of just real estate burden and it ends up with the people and capital in very pleasing arrangements for both labor and capital and that is very good what is less good about the services economy that we've sort of we love and the daily is that with the brief exception of like the first two years of COVID that has now sort of turned off a little bit again and only for elite workers right not for the food delivery people and everyone like that but so but but mostly if you're selling services you need to co-locate next to the person you're selling your services to and if you want to make any money at all selling services that means you need to co-locate next to the wealthiest possible customer that you can personally find and you know this is something that I understood in theory there's like it's wonderful anecdote I've written like 8,000 times of like my father telling me he moved from like North Carolina to to my town and I'm like I see what you charge like that was a great decision and you know like if you're a landscaper right like go do it in like Napa not in like Detroit right like I don't know like like wealthy people that you can sell your services to is the only way to make money in services but everyone else knows that which means you're now funneled down the funnel of of real estate landlords and now your rents going through the roof now you're getting radicalized and you're trying to find out who to blame you're gonna you know yeah maybe it's housing policy maybe it's the politicians I don't know what it is the rents are out of control but it's like you're funneled you're necessarily funneled to live next to capital and so like this is the law of rent just taking ownership of you this is even funnier in the context of your piece but another thing this makes me think of is like maybe one of the ways out of this is flying cars and then you think about like it was actually making flying cars right now and there's the video that came off the other day that well maybe they're on the screen and it's you know the Chinese are the ones who we have some flying cars here but regulatory it's gonna be possible to get them in the air but like the thing that it makes me think is like what about like an hour outside of the city or an hour and a half or like that radius of where people can live and serve the city like maybe that gets decoupled in the same way that the shipping container decoupled industrial location from from customers yeah maybe I mean depending on your on your political and and favored pet policies there's like a whole bunch of solutions to this to everyone has right like there's the public transport folks who like we just need to build trains or like just build public transport right and that kind of bleeds into the crime problem it's like I'm just sitting in my car I don't want to deal with that you've got the the flying cars folks who are like building cool shit is cool we should I mean an hour is time but distance and time have a relationship so like as long as you move faster you can actually be farther away you could live on a mountain and commute in and be in downtown that's great you know you've got the oh we just need to deregulate San Francisco and that will that will suddenly make rent there cheaper people which like you know you should deregulate but also it won't make the rent cheaper yeah everyone has their pet policy I think to some extent all of them are kind of right like in a utopian world where it worked it would be right but like what would happen five years later well everyone still needs to make money in services if all still needs to come to the same place you still you you can kick the can down the road a decade or two but like I don't know if you get two decades to be honest like at some point people are pretty quick about moving to this to to to to to to locate that labor next to declines and you probably end up with a lot more people and I don't know I don't know the good thing about circles is how they're area scales as they go out right you can be in any one of these spots there until like the bigger the circle gets the the wider the radius the the more area there is for people to live in this is true this is true and maybe maybe yeah maybe maybe it maybe it works I'm sort of imagining the yeah I mean I would love it to work I'm but it's sort of you still trapped in services held to some degree and I just I'm skeptical that that's like the path out for for the this sort of median person this is another one of those like it's not like a positive malloc but it's not like someone you know trying to to take advantage of polluting the waters where everybody fishes or whatever it's not like a terribly negative malloc but everyone acting self-interested system level thing that that is tough another one that you talk about that like really strikes close to home because I'm like oh like maybe this piece trends into something about how this is actually all like totally solvable if you talk about this like thing that we're really really good at which is like optimizing for returns and having capital seek the highest growth opportunity is like actually you know kind of the reason that all of this has has happened in the west like there is like the you know right now Main Street versus Wall Street thing and I think if you personified Wall Street is the people who like high returns there is like kind of some some blame there although it seems more more systems level just explain that piece of the essay because we're going to try to figure out how to fix it but but what's going on what are we up against yeah I that wasn't in the first draft and I was I was talking with a friend who's trying to raise money for its hardware company and I was like kind of joking with him about this essay and then I was I was writing in I was like adding a little picture to the section of the essay where I'm like okay I'm not supposed I'm not just because I'm talking up China doesn't mean I love China like I did I this is like an adversarial respect thing and I was like I should I should put in the essay why America is so great like let me explain that like private capital markets we are like we are the Mecca on earth for like turning 10 bucks into 100 bucks like that we we you come to America this is capital is heaven like we that's what we do right so I kind of have that whole section in the essay is like a a dendom that I added in where I thought it fit best after the fact to be like this is what we're really good at and I think I titled it like the logic of capital which is just like a really funny Marxist slogan that I think is like an ironic thing to kind of reclaim um but it basically just says like look the thing that we do is is maximize the return on capital and there are some constraints since you know our system has some things that it that it incentivizes of others but but basically we what what we do is we take 10 10 bucks and turn it to 100 bucks and so like you know if you were in 1995 and you had the opportunity to invest in this electric vacation thing that I'm pitching and it's like worth like trillions of dollars right now that's awesome if you had a pie like a hundred millions of dollars a hundred million dollars to invest even fifty million dollars and you put it into that thing you would have not seen like a meaningful like equity return for like on the scale of 20 years like I think I think most of these fun life cycles are like plus or minus on 10 years so like you cake 1995 and you go plus 10 the iPhone doesn't exist um like you're still like yes you're I don't know how many batteries you're making but like you have you have a you have terrible margins the alternative in America was you invested like Amazon eBay like five other billion dollar software companies like you you would you would literally just be terrible at your job if you ever chose to not invest in those things and turn 10 bucks into 100 bucks like that was like just that was a slum duck thing um the the the the nature of America's capital markets generally like you know maybe maybe like Silicon Valley to some degree it's private now but maybe back in the day there was some government funding you know like a lot of people have talked about this I put it in the essay like you know the government collocating was kind of like a nice and industrialism happening in the one on the west coast it was very good for America that's where things of stock which is an interesting learning by the way around the stickiness of trade routes and industrialism is it's things things are sticky once you get that once you get them um but yeah I kind of I kind of just talking about capital I or the stuff matters a lot one of the things that I forget if if you said it or someone else said it was like oh well what if we just what if we just put more capital into the system I didn't that's great would it would it then would would you choose batteries in 1995 oh I did I did I sent that to you yeah and I was like the thing is we just lived through like two years of the most insane flooding the zone with capital on earth and what happened is that every dollar that gets allocated still has to return the fund probabilistically like like one in ten of them has and so they just bit up the price of the same assets until it was no longer profitable and like some bizarro kind of and it's it's interesting right because like in the moment that's true if you look at it kind of like a couple of years removed now there is now a push and this is like kind of how I'm focused a push towards funding kind of these things that before would have seemed crazy to fund one I think because we flooded so much capital into software the returns just actually aren't there anymore I mean it's so much in a building AI so like software returns are even outside of a few AI companies are even more challenged and so you have no choice so maybe maybe if you do flood with capital it is good because you you almost have no choice now but to invest in these harder things that might take a little bit longer although like there has been some infrastructure built up around them that could that could make that not be the case but yeah maybe actually served was good this is the private capital version of the the Deng Xiaoping argument where it's like okay it goes so egregiously bad that we love and then we then we start allocating capital elsewhere yeah I mean I I hope so the issue the issue for me is just that the the time cycle of these things can be long and the the benefit of the all the stuff we built and innovated on semiconductors is like when the underlying tech is improving so fast a lot of these fixed costs that get in the way of making equity returns just evaporate because you can scale a firm and there's no one even to compete with or whatever but you do have you do show I'll push back on this because like you you struck at my my current investment thesis and so yeah so I want to like I just want to understand your perspective on this like yeah we are at a spot now you show the battery chart really nothing happened nothing happened nothing happened nothing happened something happened and like yeah there is this platform economy maybe we're cutting ourselves off from it intentionally now and so maybe that's like really bad for for all the companies that I invest in but do we now start seeing some of the stuff that was Moore's law like with things that are based on batteries I'm simultaneously a cynic and a pessimist but also willing to be uh to bet on America and optimism uh which is sort of a overlap of shorting his beliefs um so yeah that battery chart I I included because I there is like a hint of optimism in it as well like the pessimism is that all these things are really sticky and we've spent 30 years in trenching industrial supply chains and trade routes with like an adversary who like doesn't want to like owe of them and that's more than one company to build around here like like like we need I'm talking like university research co-located next I mean you need the whole platform big asks but yeah the rate of underlying rate of improvement especially with the demand so you've got like this virtual cycle of like there's a lot more demand for product large product at scale which means there's going to be capital flowing in not just investment capital but productive uh consumption and and then that can be reinvested which is very nice because that lets you fund longer investment time horizons it could be you just need and I think there needs to be a very broad agreement and alignment around these things otherwise you can get hamster it's it's funny now that we think about it like think about the the Moore's Law Chart versus the battery chart. Moore's Law like chips gave the government capabilities that they could not have gotten anywhere else no matter what trade off they decided to make and so they became an early buyer and like that sprinted and you talk about that a little bit. With batteries like if the climate is like was the most important thing in the world for the past 20 years defense is actually still above that and so they're like yeah we'll just burn like a shit little oil and like that's bad for you know supply chains military supply chains and and all of that but like it's not the batteries aren't a thing that the the military needed quite as badly as they needed chips in the early days and so maybe they didn't fund that is there anything there with like kind of how like why it didn't get steep until very very long or is it just a more complex supply chain than chips are. I don't know I think with a lot of these things there is like with a lot of the these things meaning sort of foundational investments or improvements in underlying technology that somehow accumulate and then you get a step function change. I think with a lot of these things like you just had to do all the little things for a long time without knowing exactly when the payoff was going to happen and then you know the sort of it was inevitable that there was going to be a payoff. The issue is like you know like you go and Wikipedia like when was the first electric comment and it was like 1897 or not 1870 or something right like we've had electric cars in fact the military had electric trucks in freaking I think it was well-to-one or two. Yeah right because you didn't you know the oil supply was constrained and you just charge them up at night or for a week or whatever and then you could zip about. So like the military did have electric trucks back which is crazy to think about like crazy they look wild. It's just you really had to wait for the tech to get to the point that we're talking about you know Mr. BMW I need five million batteries and now now that's real scale that means I can invest in boom boom boom and now I okay I can fund like 85 PhD research as a facility next door and the capital and the the industrial production right because I took with the we're talking about scooters earlier right like making a million of anything is a really good way to move the margin forward on what you can do and innovate and figure out new things. So yeah I don't know maybe I think we just had to accumulate a lot of wins maybe. That sounds probably right but I never I've just never thought about it this way where like it's almost like chips didn't have a substitute it was like a net new capability and so no matter how bad and expensive it wasn't the beginning there's a buyer for that thing whereas like batteries have had a substitute for like 99% of their uses batteries have a substitute and it's polluting and it's hard to move around and all of that but it's a substitute and I do think that probably shapes a little bit like the the dynamics of those curves. And also contemporaneous with the time period Joe talking about America was like the world's largest oil producer. So it was very good for us. We hold you know part of our geopolitical strategy has been to hold our hand over the oil pump for the world like if we if we also were discarding that there's like a you know even like the innovators dilemma there's like the geopolitical economy version of that which is like the you know the the oil produces dilemma or something that makes a lot of sense. All right and then you write tariffs can't save you from all of this. Why not? Well there's a 12,000 word essay where I try to make this case but I'm broadly aligned with the idea that if you wanted or thought reindustrialization was good which like it's an option I don't think it's the only path but like if you wanted to do that tariffs would probably be a necessary and good component to do it especially with the adversary and in general that whole situation but like tariffs do not actually build factories they don't employ labor they don't get goods to market they don't get goods to port they don't get the goods from the port to the end consumer they don't solve crime they don't make people want to come work for you they don't make it sexy or cool which is like it that is a lot to to attracting like high quality human talent they don't yeah there's like there's the barriers to actually going from A to B are many and even if we put enormous and you know this this the context of essay was not what got happened last week whatever but but in my head even even double what happened last week you still got to you still got to do all the other stuff like you have to nurture domestic environment you've got to get rid of all the red tape you've got to make starting businesses good you've got to have the whole thing. It also seems like I mean you only get four years to be president we talked about and maybe we could talk about actually a little bit more why that's a good or a bad thing but if you were the grand emperor of the universe maybe you do tariffs but you like deregulate and cut the red tape at the very least first so that like we're definitely going to hear start hearing like some onion headline soon about how people are trying to start domestic production and like getting like NEPA is blocking them or like something is completely getting in the way and like we can't actually build the factories that we need to build in America. There's probably some case for like oh every time we hear that complaint that's how we'll know what we need to change or something it's just like you know how the reality this thing works like there's like what's seen and what's not seen for everyone who complains there'll be 10 people who just don't do anything because they know it'll be painful so like we're not even going to bother. Maybe there's AT chess but like I guess like you you use so much political capital on this too that like the stuff that people wanted on the deregulation side. I know actually I think there was a clear path for like you might not have the political capital for anyway because the left out can push man this is come this is like actually AT chess but I don't know if anybody actually knows that they're playing AT chess but you like almost almost need to. And then there's the currency problem right like your currency rates like I mean if I've written about this since the philosophy is like that you have your reserve currency if you want to sell stuff internationally that's going to be painful for you but if you want to fix that and reallocate that that's going to be painful for Americans there's just so much more to the picture. Yeah you mentioned one as one thing that like is more to the picture of crime rates what are crime rates have to do with this? Yeah I think crime is one of these things that like kind of as with China like it's it's a little little ghost to talk about like you know like you're allowed to the proper thing for an American elite to do to complain about China is to complain about internal injustices treatment of various groups. In fact you can't talk about like like we couldn't say on this podcast that's a certain event in a certain square that happened while Deng Jingping was denjoping was was in charge of China like there are things you can't say and that's what you're allowed to complain about complaining about jobs whatever that's like man like haven't you taken equal 101 it's low class besides like you want to work in a factory crime is the same thing like it I think crime is to trade as complaining about jobs is to complaining about inequalities in China in that like there is some lens in which like it's easier to complain about NAFTA and China that it is like our own inability to make like it not incredibly painful to build an industrial hub in America co-locate your family next to it and like not have parts leave the warehouse in the middle of the night not have be a crime ridden hellhole like it's like it it it codes as a certain tribe and maybe I only feel like so obvious about it because I immigrated to America but like it codes all these things that you just don't want to be associated with if you're an elite in America to talk about crime in this way but I mean you look at a couple charts you don't have to you don't have to be like a rocket scientist to understand like the impact of real world physical crime on building real world companies whether real world goods moving about what you need real world people and their families moving about next to this thing like you don't need to be a genius to do this you don't need to do a genius to look at the charts of crime rates historically and compare like oh this is when crime went up and this is when we stopped making stuff and I don't think these things are causal unit erectionally it's it's like it's sort of like vicious cycle where like once it gets a little bad probably on the margin that makes people more disposed to crime and if you don't fix that that makes it worse which then makes it more painful for capital to invest in the region because like now it's worse and and my labor is going to be more expensive like I think there's there's some pitch on San Francisco real estate that's like to some degree San Francisco and you know maybe less New York but suddenly San Francisco rents are more expensive because there are some places you don't live and like you like you're actually you can and then that impacts companies because now labor demands more compensation so like you know but but that that that whole funnel is okay if you're a tech company selling zero marginal cost software to the internet but if you're like trying to sell actual goods maybe that's not not possible so yeah I just think like and maybe it will be better for me to never talk about it I would code is like more knowledgeable and higher class but I just think it's this like I mean it's like a huge broad block at the building anything it is just funny like to your point like what is what is okay to talk about and what is what is not okay to talk about like it has become like like you have to say globalism is like is bad like globalism is now just like a bad thing to your point on like NAFTA and like not being the whole problem I've wrote this in the PC other day too where like it just feels like globalism is a safe place where you can be like chunk like anything complex that went wrong we just say like globalism did it and like then you don't have to worry about the underlying causes and that's a really dangerous thing when you can't actually talk about what the issues are because how the hell you ever gonna solve them does one that I cut out of the essay as well which is unions which is like most of the people who engage with industrialism building things at scale recognize that for it to work like the motivating factor behind it is like benefiting domestic labor so like like the the motivating fact that the reason to do it is to make your people of your country wealthier that's ultimately the reason to which is the same purpose that most domestic unions have but there's some friction there right and like there are there are less good things and more good things but but certainly it can be it can you can get a lot of headaches and they can get in the way of innovation and doing things and and all the stuff and in it kind of the same way that right so I joke about the Irishman in the piece like there's crime there's corruption there's like both of those things dressed up as unions sometimes and you know like the the the you step back 10,000 feet you're like okay what does America do we 10 $10 into $100 we are we are we capital capital is king in America if you if you offer capital and a silver platter like an industrial platform that's gonna work maybe it's like this is pretty good if you offer it like a bunch of corruption and it's gonna get abused by by all these different people who have leverage over it and it's not nice the the tragic thing about being laborers that capital can just leave it could just go elsewhere and it does and it has and it will and like if you if you try and beat it up too much it just leaves and that's the game every day now on my way into my office I walk past not one but two of the like trucks with the big blow up rats on them because the union is mad that non union labor was used to build a store I'm not gonna name the companies that did it because I you know support them in their desire to get work done like for a quarter of the cost not because they're underpaying but because labor's rates or unions rates are absolutely absurd on a faster time schedule like there are the last company I worked for before I started writing the newsletter we did commercial real estate and build out offices and for most of the time we were able to just use kind of like our own our own crews and some buildings you know it's like hey you have to use union labor and it was literally like 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Thursday the work the rate is four times high like it just made all of those those spaces infeasible and we couldn't like so it does gum up the works a little bit like obviously the the original intent is incredible and like you don't want people dying in factories because a greedy fat cat is is taking full advantage of them we've got to fire me we talked about the box earlier it's a whole like I tweeted a while back the joke that like it's ostensibly about like the impact of the shipping container and it's really just about how like the longshore minimum always been again technological promise because the first quarter of the book is them just being like nope anything that's not us you know like being hired to do nothing is bad you have to thread the needle on the trade-off between labor and capital like if if the if domestic labor is too unhappy they are going to like they're going to like no matter how bad you think it is right now they will pick things that our way was and they can and they will whether you're a democracy or not it doesn't actually matter like I like one way or another if domestic labor is sufficiently unhappy they'll do really bad things for productivity so you need to make them happy on the flip side if if capital is unhappy too it just leaves so like there's there's a needle threading that is very hard to do I think like it's a coherent definition of like good statesmanship to try and thread that needle and I think you know different countries have been let's say differently good at doing it so I have two two kind of big questions before we wind down into our final final last three questions you hit this in the footnotes too like I'm telling people like when you read this piece I know it's long it's like half a length of an uproar in peace but read the footnotes too because they're great you're right what's eerie about this moment in 2025 is that the west is responding to domestic pressures by increasing the level of autocracy it practices and experiencing weakening democratic support for the state the very things our system mitigates compared to China's so democracy with Chinese characteristics doesn't seem to work because you don't get like the good the long-term commitment but you do get the bad which is autocracy you also right I hope to convince at least a few readers that abandoning principle and prosperity is the worst trait of all talk about why this is an eerie moment and and kind of like you know if there's a principle prosperity you know autocracy not quadrants like what that quadrant looks like and why the other three might not be as bad like what's the tradeoff we're making here and I put some caveat in there that's like look if you don't agree with me about increasing autocracy like fine whatever I'll concede it because I just I just think like there are like 8,000 examples and it is what it is I think if you can see it you can see it if you can't I guess you really like the team that's winning whichever team it is and whichever country it is because it doesn't matter which like just everywhere and yeah I kind of just I think I think on the two by two quadrant which is principle like you keep your principles you keep your you don't keep the principles at least you get rich you don't get rich right prosperity principle like I think you can kind of put Europe in the abandoned principles and abandoned prosperity camp and that's kind of like the theme of the whole essay is like it's tragic this is awful like what is going on you know you've just got unrest everything falling apart it's falling to pieces that the natural response of a nation's elite to like the populist unrest is to be like you guys have no idea what you're talking about shut up and get with the program of course you tell a bunch of unhappy people that like they're going to do it harder like that's it's just like and so you just get like these spirals of like they're abandoning their principles like just like you know just like you just bizarre a world of like simultaneously certain crimes of prosecute and so on it's just bizarre and then the flip side is like also they're just not getting rich like the thing about the Chinese lesson is the the people didn't liberalize like the 2001 American elite thought we thought they would because they got rich like there's all these quotes from the 2001 early 2000s and I love a lot of them with Chinese people being like who cares we can't say a few things on the internet like things are way better for me and like maybe you think your country would be different and your culture is different and like maybe whatever but like most people if you make things a lot better for them and their kids at least they they're they're willing to trade some of their principles and so like that's the key prosperity abandon principle thing is the the Chinese they didn't liberalize they also abandon communism like communism killed have many millions of people they've all right let's not do that all we're gonna do is product so let's like it the Europe's the abandoned abandoned China's like keep prosperity I think the the promised land is you get to keep your principles and you keep your prosperity which like is where I would like America to be certainly it's not where England is um the interesting one that I think I think also because I was I didn't want the essay to be a Conrad is aggressively lobbying for reindustrializing America through a campaign of 8 million massive reset buttons pressed on everything we do and blowing up 8,000 like you know I'm writing this for a hobby like this is like that's what what I'm trying to lay out is like there is an alternate world and there is a path potentially to like the promised land where you keep both I think what's interesting is to ask who who sits in the keep your principles but maybe a banned and prosperity camp and my my pitch for that is Japan and my pitch is that Japan is a wonderful place to be to visit to live now to Westerners the culture can be pretty great and if you live there long time like it can be hard to integrate all this stuff um but like you know and then this the hours for the employees maybe on the greatest and like lots of things to complain about if you're a nice privileged American but like by and large industrialized very important standards of living, monsterance of entertainment pretty good metrics for the whole country countries like it works it's like some more deficient um and it's like it's like pretty great place for the Japanese I I don't know that it's like what anyone should aspire to I think people should aspire to prosperity but like if if you felt like prosperity was off the table you know Japan is like this big warning sign and I use it and like multiple of my essays is like this like don't don't end up like this but um you know if if you're going to lose the game I think there are like graceful ways to lose actually what you said though about it being hostile to not hostile but like hard for for foreigners to to integrate yeah I think like kind of makes that uh maybe hard like you couldn't imagine that uh that bucket happening in America for example because what is the set of principles that everybody agrees on like there at least there is an ancient culture that you're trying to protect and everybody buys in on and you have that and you're all the same and in America like good luck getting agreement on on like anything even close to that so it's like that's like not where you can be as America so you almost have to be like uh abandoned process like that actually is like the least likely quadrant for America to end up in I would say is that is the Japan quadrant yes America we have to choose to promise land from the land of from the lens of speaking to Europe though I think uh I think maybe Europe might find the Japanese example over the course of multiple decades if they really don't want to choose prosperity that's up to them but like if they don't I think they're only option other than misery is to to try and figure out how to do the Japanese version I just I don't see how else as otherwise it's going to be a disaster all right I lied about uh about the question so is there a world in which like us you know America and China developed the mean robots essentially and then Europe actually can benefit in some way like they just sit back they choose they choose principles uh and poverty essentially but they sit back and the world comes to them and there's a world in like a few years where you can now start setting up like really automated clean factories in Europe and like there's no set of current regulations at least that can prevent you from from building things I think that would be a very compelling pitch to some Europeans um I suspect the answer is no though like I just the there's like it's actually you kind of extrapolate that away you don't even need the tech you get rid of the robots and you could say like what if there was just some like tax and redistribute regime where you could have like a couple of businesses that you did to state as quo on and and then like you made the people wealthy independently or whatever but like the it's very hard to figure out the there's two parts to this to the value creation and this value creation and value capture and it's very hard to figure out that second one cleanly in a way that maintains happy labor happy capital consistently over the course of more than like four years a lot of these regimes you know we kept robots you can have whatever tax policy like incident ultimately either someone wants to own more than they have and like the question is how am I going to do it and if the answer isn't like hey just make more cool stuff it's usually ends up being some answer the terrific productivity I don't know I would love the answer to be like yeah they just get like infinity free robots but like no and I think like the an ambitious guy with a robot beats a lazy guy with a robot you know 10 days out of 10 so yeah and he probably ends up in a favorable tax regime and not a bad and like you know we all know which country that's going to be in which one it's not and like I don't know you go away with a lot of magic ones if you want that to happen good leading so you said you didn't want to make any policy recommendations you joke get this right you have to quote do all of the things that matter and none of the things that don't bad news though we have uh we invoke the 25th amendment you somehow are now president of the United States of America what do you do starting right now from where we are I can't just quit and go back to my day job like I'm like yeah I have duty yeah country first I got it I got it you know the mantle you must inherit the mantle we've also gotten rid of the thing where you have to be born yeah the whole thing yeah yeah yeah exactly I'm not even eligible come on um okay the laundry list let me like raffle off the laundry list because the point of the essay was just like the scope of this problem is so much bigger than you think like the problem is enormous uh it's like you took about 50 years 30 50 years of problem um okay the laundry list is like the laundry list is like okay first first first day one you go tell everyone what we're doing it's like non-negotiable is this happening like get with the program like I don't know it is roughly the goals is what we're gonna do it's not like corporate member jumpos just like big big bald headings is what we're having it's it's happening no matter what second uh just say bite the bullet on it yeah we probably do a bunch of tariffs that just is what it is it's helpful it'll be helpful for now um then continue it's all the same time all happened the same time then we figure out okay we're gonna build a bunch of domestic regional hubs around industry um question is do you reuse current ones or are they just too decayed you need to start fresh given that this whole thing is probably not a full life appointment I'm like we're just starting fresh otherwise it'll never happen so like you probably just start next door I don't know I don't know I don't know maybe you can eminent domain some federal land from the states or something probably pretty terrible I you've got to be whatever I'm doing it uh so we're starting regional hubs uh around certain industries around America how do we put people in them we need like we need leaders we need executives uh people who are not cronies and and terrible at making stuff and uh owned by various interests so um I don't know you just just find some find some executives and tell them they've got new jobs um who are good uh maybe I still am from tech sector because all my friends will tell me who's good and I trust them but that's kind of cronies so I don't know um uh what about like then then you have to put people in you know people have to be here to build stuff so um we probably have to have a new civil service exam situation we probably make the SAT slightly harder but we can you can accept that for credit it's a like certain like management roles uh but we also need non-management roles so we have like some training and accreditation programs next to inside every regional hub if you graduate from this and you pass this qualification at the end you get a job for at least four years like whatever cool here's your labor thing uh but the job might not be with one company but just you're you you can work for in factory the factory not the company um okay so now we've got regional hubs we've got people running the companies we've got some smart people who can like make sure I nothing goes too crazy we've got we've got a whole bunch of labor uh obviously we build like infinity housing next to this it's like free if you're working here basically or something like that okay so we're building stuff uh we probably use the department of defense and a few other government agencies to your point early on electric batteries to kick start procurement from these factories because it's always nice to have pre purchased inventory uh pre purchased orders um so we've proved as demand for stuff you spoke about the ports earlier we've got to ship the stuff out right so um okay so cool now we get to we can build some infrastructure the train people will be happy uh probably a bunch of these will need like modern trains to get people from the houses to the hub and then to the ports or wherever else we're gonna get the goods out there we get to the ports the long showman tell me I can't do anything so we like just evaporate that whole arrangement like however I'm waving the magic wand here okay you tell me I get so that's just gone I could do whatever I like um and then okay so the goods the goods are going now we've got we've got people making stuff there's like a a career path to people we probably need to fund trade publications and uh paper of record to make it like have social status and not just be some like terrible like conrad's pet project of kronism and you know it's gonna be a style in five-year plan misery type thing so everyone's gonna think it's really cool like or like this is that not this really cool but like there has to be broad-based buy-in that this is worth doing that it's meaningful that dedicating yourself and like your career and like building an identity around like working building stuff is good so like you know I'm not saying like we it's it's a bunch of propaganda but like someone needs to be writing this and like if if that doesn't happen the default is that every newspaper is gonna be calling for like regime change by week three so like I've got I've got to have some supporters out there um then we've got the goods and they're in the ports they're going to china there's a question of like IP because we spoke about this would be mw like what do you do about the IP situation I don't know but I don't have time to figure it out because I'm I'm not here for very long in this role so I probably just say um if you build things in china or you use designs or share with china uh and we you are treated the same way as not as if you don't enforce a copyright on a copyright which is to say I don't think you're right you care about your IP so we don't care about it either anyone can make anyone can make it in one of our industrial hubs that's fine think you don't care about it so we don't care about it um so now we've got a system up and running we kind of but what happens if someone does something crime enforcement okay so if someone doesn't respect the IP we get some industrial espaniage or whatever they're just doing anyway so like yeah like the reality is the these zones have to be like radically different crime profile to Europe and America's default right now uh which is different in both countries but not conducive to building things so um we probably need to do massive judicial justice reform we need to build new prisons because americans prison system is horrifically bad like just get the Norway nice things but then they're gonna be they're gonna be more full um so everyone's gonna be unhappy with that uh and then um okay so we've got the system it's up and running we're making goods in hubs we probably need to reinvest capital so i like we start some ministry of like trade and industry for like government debt reinvestment in companies that are doing well to help them scale out but that's not quite venture capital because it's a different profile if we're about making long-term investments uh like DOE loans and yeah but like you can we can we can we can put real capital into businesses that are working and we have to put constraints on this so basically we hire people out of MBA programs or something like that we probably fund our own MBA programs in universities that are attached to these regional hubs um and we hire people out of this and they get like guaranteed very high standard of living for this thing however they are banned from working in industry ever um the only way you can make money is by working for us oh well you know whatever like you can't you can't the revolving door thing isn't gonna work um and so yeah and we make that into a prestigious thing right like Singapore does some kind of prestigious government programs integrated with that that that work like it's not it's not doesn't have this veneer of sort of failed Soviet style and this terribleness um so we do that and that's how we continue to fund the thing after like it's got kicked out it is and that's how we allocate capital to winners and losers instead of instead of doing cronies and we just take like bunch of smart people hey what's working what's not you're basically DRI for your hub and you or maybe your industry within your hub and make it make it happen or not um kind of kind of combative kind of cooperative uh okay so we fix crime we fix capital allocation we fix trade we've kind of assumed we've fixed industry we built the whole thing i don't know how we fund it like we probably have to print a lot of capital and then and and print a lot of dollars we've already done that so maybe we could at least do it for something productive that'd be nice um yeah i don't know uh at what point in this chain do i get assassinated as my question like i i think like step two but maybe i make it to like month you put tariffs pretty early so like maybe maybe maybe there but yeah it's it's it's dizzying right and like to your point it's a ex number of your commitment when to even get the regional hubs built you're already out of office oh i don't make i don't make it to the mid-tunifists yeah like i'm yeah i'm voted out of office at year two the question is do i get assassinated before then or not like it's just like and oh no of course i'm we're assuming that there's no like i've packed a supreme court right like no one's blocking me on any of this stuff right like i mean you're assuming the whole country doesn't hate me for throwing out all of it just did nothing nothing works like i like i'm obviously not advocating this is why i'm like this is why i made the joke i'm like i have no policy at it's tough i mean like to your point i'm not making the the the principles for uh for prosperity trade off like there is something to like or you just like maybe cut some regulations and like make it easier for this like weird entrepreneurial system that somehow continues to work that produce tesla to your point produce tesla because we had one crazy man who just went all in where the capital markets wouldn't but like maybe you just like try to figure out how to make that system work as well as humanly possible and hope that we we kind of figure it out we have certain principles in the west they're not well aligned with like uh massively centralized state emperor who like dictates the economy by fiat like it's like you can kind of lay out the laundry lesson you're just like this is like shockingly un-american un-english like this is like nothing that i believe in this like doesn't really work um as in like i think i think i think i think i think it would work as in in some world where all of the principles weren't violated in the culture and the country and everyone didn't it didn't exploit like what look at china it works we better hope that we love your your particular flavor of ideas always uh you know like yeah you're putting a lot of eggs in one conrad vascular you need like broad yeah i i do think like part of to your point on like what if we just did a little bit like you a little bit of broad alignment on some of the underlying principles would go a long way as in like making people domestically a little rich like i think i in some ways like on a metal level i would kind of write my essay and other ones too the kind of like is like a plea to my fellow elites of like okay the the the concerns of labor in the label labor capital dispute like you can ignore them they will obliterate you if you do um but also you can't put them primary to capital because then capital will leave like you need to thread the needle on that bounce and a lot of my writings just trying to like put the language that we use instead of the polemic language that people usually talk about these things in and be like look like you could do stuff like you could do stuff and it could work and like maybe we should try amen all right so last last three uh i think people will after listening to this if people want to read another essay of yours what should they read if you like the economic stuff read the full stack of society which is my like magnum opus on how countries build wealth if you like the culture stuff read escalation theory it's about crime and how elites cause all the crime in the world and uh if you like tech read monetization of monopolies because it's about how tech companies work pro monopolies right anti union bruh yeah i think is is your your sands i just need to figure out what i'm going to put on the the headline of the the fees something like that i'd love every in trouble what's one i say that you didn't write that other people should read everybody who cares about these things that we've been talking about should read Alexander Hamilton's original report on manufacturers with the footnotes that i've linked in a number of my essays um and you can find online by googling exactly what i just type just said um and i have one piece of reading advice for it which is reading all timey english is very hard for modern americans because they respect punctuation and it'll take you 10 minutes of practice once you're reading it ignore all punctuation marks while reading read it as a stream of consciousness read it as this conversation read it as you and me having a podcast have chat gbt read it back to you or something read all the footnotes and it will do two things to you one it will slightly lower your respect for what we've been talking about china today because you'd be like holy smokes this guy in the 1700s later it'll out here right talking about debt you talking about capital allocation talking about cost of labor and then you'll also develop some respect for um the people that built the institutions of america and what we have and what we had today and i think it's worth reading you've seen the charts on literacy kind of declining would it be okay if people just watched hamilton sure yeah want just watch the play you know you'll get all this it's a cliff notes version just just watch it well at least i've put yeah throw the soundtrack on Spotify it's like really catchy it's really good i've seen it it was wonderful uh and uh you know i was hesitant to see it because i'm a fan of him you know so i was just like oh no and you know beside the uh against myself i very much enjoyed it so yeah you just just watch the play you don't have to be cool perfect you may have you may have just said it uh the thread in the needle but the the last question i always ask is uh i gave you even more power not only your president now but you have the ability to implant a one sentence takeaway in everybody's brain what is that one sentence the only piece i would add to what we're just talking about is uh i had to put it on one sentence winning is in the space of possible outcomes but it is not the default outcome and so you need to thread that needle that's really good conrad thanks so much for coming on thanks for writing i cannot wait for six to 12 months from now to read the next piece of yours and i'll have you back on then does a lot of fun thank you