# Video Information

**Title   ** : Apex OS  
**Uploader** : Apex AI  
**Duration** : 47:36  
**URL     ** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EhAV_B-HsM0  

---

## Transcription

 All right, the audience is filling up. So then I think we are good to start. So good morning. And welcome to today's webinar. My name is Thomas Vamperev. I'm the vice president of Business Development at XAI. And that's a pleasure to have you here. I appreciate you taking your time to join us. Today we will be discussing options to accelerate your software development. We are targeting high performance computing systems, which will likely also make use of artificial intelligence. Our focus will be on reusability of our assets and functions across different target systems. And we will also explore how these aspects impact your architecture decisions, your calibration options and also testing up to domain-specific safety regulations. Our goal today is to provide you with some valuable insights that you can apply to your own projects, for example, in the agriculture domain, medical domain, robotics, or other industrial industries. I'm also joined today by my colleague Laura, Laura back from our business team here in Europe. And also later, we will welcome Laya Johnson from our engineering team in Palo Alto. Both will be managing the Q&A session. So if you have any questions already during the presentation, please feel free to submit them. Also, we are the Q&A button. You will find it in Zoom at the bottom of your Zoom site. So at the end of the session, we will go through your questions as many as possible, and we will provide detailed answers. So with that, let's get started. So I would like to begin by giving you a quick overview of our today's agenda. So I will explain briefly our background. And I will then explain also where in the architecture of an eye performance computing system, we can make a difference. So this will be detailed also by some use cases from our customers. And at the end of our session, as already mentioned, we will be able to answer all your questions you have had during the session in the Q&A. So please use the Q&A button at the bottom to provide your question during or at the end of the session. So let's start with a PECSAI. So the story or the history of PECSAI already started 25 years ago here in Germany, where I'm based, and yeah, we have an automotive, but even stronger robot expect-ground. Our founder, Jan Becker, who lives in the US quite long in the meantime, was one of the early birds in autonomous driving. So already in the 90s, he was working on... Yeah, level five vehicles we would call them today. So aside several stations within industry and academia, he's, for example, still a still professor for autonomous systems in Stanford. He participated in the first stopper challenges, and he's even one of the five people who defined the SAE autonomy levels back then. Together with our co-founder, Diane Pagbacic, Jan Becker was also part of the Willow Garage project. Many of you might know them. Might know this project. This is the birthplace of the robot operating system. And yeah, this took already place more than 20 years ago. So still today, one of the biggest open source projects and for robotics enthusiasts applied to many industries. In 2017, it takes the IOS founder. At this time, the idea came up to make also safe robotic systems. So real-time, capable, deterministic, and certifiable. And why? Because it needed to be applied also to industries. So this means it has to be scalable across industries and also usable instead of the art development processes. And with this motivation, epics I was found in 2017. So open up a business based on open source will that work? I mean, common misconception is that open source software and source available software are the same thing, but they are not. So let me clarify a bit. Open source software follows licenses like GPL or Apache license. And this allows you to modify, distribute, and use the software 3D, often requiring contributions back to community. But source available software, on the other hand, provides transparency by making the source code accessible, but it's not necessarily free. And it's also not necessarily free to modify without a license. So this approach ensures commercial viability while still giving customers the benefits of visibility, security auditing, and customization. So we at epics AI, we offer source available software. And this under a commercial license. This means our customers, they get access to high quality, safety certified software, with the flexibility to inspect and integrate it to into their own system. So and this without obligations of these traditional open source licenses. So this means epics AI combines the best of both worlds. So the transparency and reliability on one hand and the support and the insurance enterprises just need. And another common misconception. Epics OS is not an operating system. It's actually in platform independence software framework to abstract the operating system details and to provide tooling and communication, for example. It's designed to build systems with real time and mixed criticalities, safety capabilities. Everything is developed either at our headquarters in Palo Alto, in California, or here in Germany and the Stuttgart region. Stuttgart in Munich region. So what is it? What is it all about? So our portfolio may think of it as a software foundation that enables complex safety critical applications without requiring a specific operating system. So our architecture is supporting different real time operating systems and different system-on-chip platforms. So this provides flexibility and adaptability also for seamless integration and required real time performance, independent from hardware vendors or specific libraries. So we support the various post-exbased real time operating systems and the range of state-of-the-art HPC systems from different vendors you see here. So and the domain freedom is really the thing for us. Our products are used from tractor to medical equipment. This is possible. So the scheme you see here, we will use also on the following slides. So I will guide you through. So epics either as one of the building blocks is a high performance data transport across processes, ECUs and domains. This allows to communicate on top of that, we have a text-grace, our scalable middleware and software development kit for safe and deterministic applications. And on the left side you see combining services and tools, epics Allen, which is an automated CI, CD, continuous integration, continuous deployment and test infrastructure, which allows to integrate seamless into also your existing infrastructure and epics OS for verification and validation, which provides capabilities around deterministic record and replays for reproducible, reproducible, validation and deeper safety cases, especially in artificial intelligence. So please keep this, your picture in mind will help you to guide through the following slides. So let's then start with epics grace. So before we start, most of you will know what is an SDK. So an SDK or software development kit just basically provides an necessary tools and libraries for developers and architects to define a platform and different applications. So it abstracts the interfaces and hardware specifics and an SDK allows the developer to focus on the user-facing functions without worrying about the underlying system basically. And similar to how an SDK provides essential tools for the developers, epics grace equip teams with all the resources they need to accelerate their development process. So epics grace provides libraries, tools, safety certification options, all in one software development kit and enables customers to create versatile functions for different reliable end products. So it's quite appealing to developers in open source community, especially in the huge global risk community and also since it's based on current programming languages such as C++, 1721, and we also are supporting rust with an interface. It appeals not only to developers, also to most customers since it's offering easy scalability. Since you get a broad pool of available software experts and the integrability to your existing tool chains. For example, when you are using code generators or modern day software engineering environments, they can be used right away. And the best is epics grace is safety certified as safety element out of context according to ISO 26262, as in the so this is an auto mode of norm for sure. But this is based on an overarching industry norm, the machinery directive IEC 6158. And so this complies a lot with other derivatives. So our customers, for example, in agriculture who have to fulfill the HEPL safety standards, we have for marine customers, they have to fulfill the respective marine norm. So that said, or to sum it up, the SDK is providing essential libraries, essential tools to develop your products. And this is ready to get also the safety certification for your specific domain, proven as safety element out of context usable for your in-going text certification. So the next topic was epics IDAR. We thought about how could we explain a data transport solution. But in the end, a data transport solution acts like a universal travel adapter. So seamless connectivity across different platforms and systems regardless the way you are. And like this, epics IDAR also is more important is moving not power, but very powerful large amounts of data between multiple systems or multiple applications very efficiently and securely. So it ensures smooth transfers without the risk of loss or correction. It also handles translation of a variety of communication protocols and bus systems and ensures seamless data exchange across different systems. And also across systems of systems. So epics IDAR enables basically high performance communication across processes, across ECUs, different hypervisors or operating systems, partition domains and infrastructure and therefore ensures seamless data flow also in very complex systems. So here, for example, when you have an ECU, containing several system on chips with several partitions, they communicate internal process, they communicate inter ECU, they communicate between ECUs, but also between different systems with infrastructure and all that supported out of the box with a very efficient zero-company mechanisms. And so with this high variety of interfaces, it is very easy configure for developers. So it excels especially in mixed criticality systems or mixed criticality system off systems with different safety requirements. And this combined with high throughput, supporting also various real-time operating systems and hypervisors, we have reached really benchmark throughput capabilities in the range of 100 gigabit per seconds and our absolute benchmark with low latencies at least according to our customers, but feel free to reach out and also benchmark us. So why all that? I mean, AppXOS brings smartphone-like SDK-based function development to state of the art software development. So it enables short to development times. And this, since you haven't end to end SDK, developers are enabled to develop reliable and complex applications. But while complexity describes the challenges, we need to overcome along the way. Productivity development means also delivering the results faster. And there's a good study. This is from the colleagues from McKinsey, which really explains that the software development productivity in the industry is stagnating while the complexity is increasing and the gap is getting bigger and bigger. And also with the, let's say traditional methods, it's quite hard to cope with. And so it's unclear how to close this gap for some. But in the end, the question is, how can I reduce the complexity and increase the productivity? And by freeing domain experts from dealing with low-level software complexities or hardware dependencies, we really enable them to focus on what truly matters. And this is creating value, customer-facing functionalities, which seem as run on diverse target devices. And which are reusable, and which are also transferable, and maintainable. So the scalability, reusability and quality, this is highly depending on, yeah, also feedback, feedback to the developers. So building, maintaining high quality software is not just writing code. It's about ensuring seamless collaboration across teams, across suppliers, across partners, and continuously improving also the reliability. So no worries, I will not bother you with all the details on the slide. What really matters is the acceptance of the users, the integration ability to existing environments and processes and fast feedback into the evolve teams. So it's not magic what we are doing. We are using state of the art tooling, integrated in existing tool infrastructures. And yeah, we support, or we offer continuous integration, continuous deployment environment for, which is supporting Azure Cloud, Google Cloud, AWS services. And this helps to manage feedback time, because feedback time directly correlates with the cost of change. So, and when you don't put attention on scalability, yeah, it's quite hard to get proper feedback times. So, FX Allen is a modern CI CD pipeline. It's based on state of the art technology. It's based also on open source technology. And FX Allen helps to automate testing, it helps to automate integration, it helps to automate deployment. And it ensures that every change, whether from internal teams or external partners, are rigorously validated. So this leads to a more robust and also scalable software system. As mentioned, we have very profound examples from our customers. In the end, it's a combination of our tools and our services. We offer as an IP transfer to our customers, and a very big global organization really changed their software development processes, and could manage to reduce their feedback times from several months and dependencies on single suppliers for integration to just a couple of hours. And they can do it now on-site using a monorippo, using a model build environments, for example, the basil. And this is really a very interesting part also for us to see how well this develops and how big the leverage is we can also reach here to speed up the development of our customers. But that's not all. Developing continuous integration and deployment is one thing to scale up and to also manage the quality of your suppliers. But at FX AI, we also empower customers to bring their AI to the apex of performance. The key to a better AI is improving training data and also refining learning processes through backpropagation. So our verification and vegetation solution enables that a monistic record and replay and this ensures reproducible conditions for vegetation and continuous AI improvements. So just to give you an example, so you have a real world environment, you have very complex measurement, you gather a lot of data, a lot of, for example, video data or a different sensor data, but also data out of your system, out of your robot, your machinery, your tractor. And this collected is stored as a data and made ready for a deterministic replay, deterministic, not only time, but also data deterministic. So this helps to define your or your to fill your safety argumentation. So the high fidelity replay in fixed order provides reproducible execution of the recorded data. And this is not only time, but also data deterministic. So this enhances your AI performance. So when you are building smaller or also bigger foundation models, your training data can be hardened, can be made more robust. And you can really get an insight into your learning because you can focus also on the back propagation. So it captures the full context, it synchronizes real world conditions for vegetation. But it can also be enriched with your simulator, there are very profound simulation environments. And if you are using foundation models for sure, you are already depending not only on real world, but also on simulation data. But this enrichment in combination with the data mechanism is really what makes it different here. So you can also reduce risk of latency, timing, variability. So you have to figure out, depending also on your heart the capabilities, where do I calculate? And this can be controlled. And the best is our customer's take and also integrate this seamlessly. And we are supporting Sil Hill or X in the loop environments. So to connect to your architecture, your test and also your CI City tools. So with this dive into the portfolio, you might have some questions. Please do not hesitate to put them into the Q&A session. Already, but I would like to also take a look into our real world applications with some customers. So some customer examples, I'm not able to disclose all at this point, as mentioned, we are start up. And but be in short, there will be some more announcement. So I will explain a little bit more about the customers on the next slides. So aside robotics and medical, we have, yeah, I think a big announcement coming up this year with a global market leader in this field. Mobility as a service for sure is a big customer group. But even more promising is our cooperation in the agriculture industry and also already announced last year. And also put to see at the CS this year, Brunswick, the marine application with the voting. So how that looks like, what are we doing? So Volkswagen, Moira for example, it's a mobility as a service provider. And in the end, they're using our product not to drive autonomous, no, no, no, no, they are using it really to bridge communication. So they are abstracting the vehicle and the ID system using Apex OS as as middleware because the passenger management is the heart of a right pooling. And we have a lot of safe operations, a lot of interactions also with different controllers and a very huge amount of back end communication. That said, also a lot of suppliers are involved here. And just to manage, we are also helping with our solutions. On the other hand, Brunswick, as Jatast mentioned, their goal is not only to provide this fancy auto-docking feature you can see here. I mean, they are the biggest manufacturer of recreation boats globally. And for sure, they have to offer new functionalities for their end customers. So Apex OS is really used to focus on new functionalities. And you should take a closer look what they are doing. And for sure, they will add a lot of functionality inside the auto-docking in the future. So agricultural customers, very interesting for me, as an engineer is also the challenge to distribute calculation capacity, for example, between tractor and implement. So the protocols are a lot of legacy is involved. And but they really can bring a huge function and lift to a target audience, the farmers, which are already able to deal with tailor-operated, GPS-operated, geo-based system and automation. So there's more to come. And Kronen and Lempkin are globally global players, such as Akofent. So Akofent, those were early investors. You see very early pictures from the R&D phase. And yeah, for sure, production-ready capabilities are very important. And also here, you will see that in agriculture, the futures are already there. And also the bigger tractors are coming into production. Unfortunately, I cannot disclose more customers. But at the end, I will explain a bit more also about our global footprint and investment net scale. So but now I would like to sum up a bit. So what are our core expertise? Middleware across different domains. So we really have mobility as a service, trucks, mining, agriculture. We have seen a lot, medical, very interesting field, marine, and we support not only with the how should I balance the system, computer hardware, but also EE architecture variants. We have the profound experts with really long-term industry background here in the company and can support heavily. So that said, for example, if you are dealing with AI and have to improve the performance, you should definitely reach out. And yeah, off the shelf, already available solutions. So as mentioned, we are licensing our products. Epic sprays the SDK framework and Epic's IDA. So both have best in class performance, modular, extensible architecture, and high performance execution, communication support, set mixed safety, criticality systems. And the solutions for the ICD, the effects element, and the verification and validation. Epic's OS for verification and validation is really cutting edge when it comes to safety certification or even just enhancing performance of AI-based systems. So this is not just attractive to customer, as mentioned also this is very attractive to leading financial and strategic investors. So with that, our headquarters in Palo Alto from 2017, also Germany was very early, but in the meantime, we could extend also to Sweden, Japan, and Korea. And the latest investor's announcement was just quite brand new from last month with IG. This also is a good indicator in what markets we are active. That brings us already to the end of today's session. So, but not to the very end, you have now the chance also to put your questions into the respective fields. So thank you all for your time and engagement. So this is the end also note, this webinar is just the beginning. So we will be hosting industry specific sessions featuring guest speakers from customers and partners. And we will also provide in the future some deep dive technical webinars for those who are looking more in depth. Best insights. So stay tuned for upcoming topics. And yeah, just also subscribe to the epics AI on LinkedIn. There you will be noted. We also would highly value your feedback. So please let us know what we can improve in future sessions. And additionally, if you are interested in exploring this further. I'm also encouraging you to check out our white paybos and blog posts. I think there's a lot to be found as well. So then with that said, I'm looking forward to my colleagues Liar and Laurel. And we are looking forward to your questions. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, everybody. Thank you, Thomas. And we have already one question into the chat. So the question is what's the advantage of the epics or foundation over working directly with Ross. So it's Ross to very good. Thank you. So what do we also heard? We are based on Ross. But we are like a deterministic version of Ross. So if you need a safety case to support certification. So you better go with us because Ross too is not deterministic. So also what we provide is maintenance and support for the product. So if you have a question with Ross, so you could answer. You could ask it in the open source. But we are here to support and provide you instantly with support also with feature development that is customized for your use case. Also with communication protocols that are not in the open source. And we also support the main major policy-based SOCs that is not coming directly with Ross. And you can support SOC and different real-time operating system. So then another question came just in. Can APICS also adopt to industry specific standards? And how is this ensured? So this was also answered a bit already today. So industry specific standards, they are all safety standards are based on the norm. I see 61508. This is a basic functional safety norm. And from all this, from this norm, all the other norms derive like the ISO 26262 for the automotive and for medical. They are, there is the norm for the system for the medical devices. It's also derived from the same one. So for medical equipment like the IAC60601. So and we provide the safety element out of context certification that is supports your system or certification. So this is how it's done industry specific. So do we have other questions? So one question is what is the impact of the gray solution on development timelines and associated costs? What feedback have you received from your customers on this? So Thomas, would you like to... I can jump in. So the impact on development timelines. Yeah. So our customers would equate developing with APEXOS as being much more close to developing with Ross as this open source technology that makes it really easy and quick to prototype your applications. So we very much kept this same approach to our APIs and it is a very important thing to this same approach to our APIs and the design of the framework so that you can move quick but still certify your product at the end of the day. So we really thrive in that last 20% of bringing a product into production and ensuring that you are reducing risk as much as possible, which is what all of these standards are trying to get you to do. So I don't have any numbers I can share with you today, but it certainly bridges the gap from prototyping into production and that's where we focus our value ads. Yeah. It's absolutely true. So if I may add, for sure, it shortens very much at the time. And especially when it comes to real-time critical applications and especially when it comes also to optimization topics, latencies, so the customers really can do a heavy lifting here with our solution. We have examples from our customers where they basically could also just save hardware costs massively because they didn't have to calculate on very expensive SOCs because they're using Epic's either, they could distribute also and find a good tailored architecture to do that. And especially with the zero-copy mechanisms, we also have examples where the customer was simply saving energy in their electric battery powered devices. They were driving with it because they saved a lot of energy by not having to copy memory that often now. So it's not already reducing latencies and speeds that is this up. It also ensures that you can save energy in the system. So we have a profound examples. And in the end, you are invited also to bring in your example to benchmark us. We will find definitely the benefits how you can speed up. And the biggest benefit is that you do not have to maintain your own middleware, your own glueware, your own interfaces. Underneath you can focus on the function. And this is why some customers with bigger development teams can save up to two digit middleware maintainers and can bring them into their function teams to do something which is really value for the company. Okay, thank you, Tomo. So there is another question. And they are popping up a lot of questions now. So we will hurry up a bit to all of them. So the question is how do you work with Android that may be an additional OS in the system? Live, could you? Yeah, so Android is typically used for like the HMI, the human machine interface. So perhaps you want to enable or disable part of your system via touch screen. So that's typically how this works. Apex Ida is going to handle the communication and whether you're publishing or subscribing data from your Apex OS system to Android. And handling that translation of the data formats and everything so that as an application developer, you just worry about developing that interface and knowing that the data will be sent and received. And you don't have to know the specifics of the Android network stack or you know a lot of the specifics of the Apex Ida middleware. You simply just send and receive data from your applications. Okay, the next question is we develop on Rostu humble. What is the level of difficulty of moving to Apex? Sure. So in our 2502 release just last month. We added support for Rostu humble. So we are up to date API wise with Rostu humble, which is something we always strive to be within one or two releases of the open source Rostu versions. And we do have 100% on the wire compatibility. So Rostu and Apex OS are completely interoperable. And even Rost1 and Apex OS are interoperable on the wire. So the effort that you need is really switching some of your APIs to use some of the deterministic and real-time capable Apex OS APIs. But we're talking a matter of days, sometimes even hours, just depending on the size of your project. If you have a complete robot, you know, with perception, planning and control that are fairly well fleshed out and you have it working, you know, maybe maybe a couple of weeks. And you would be transitioned over to to Apex OS libraries. And you would automatically get better performance, fire reliability of the system, etc. Okay, thanks. And then there is another one which native OS does Apex OS support? Or is Apex OS then alone? So I think there are versions we just answered, but the native OS you mean the real-time operating system? I believe or I think so for development, you can just use your Linux machine. You know, that's what we use in house for for day to day development. Then you can do your initial testing on a Linux system with the real-time settings enabled or immediately begin deploying to the embedded hardware, like, you know, an NVIDIA DriveAge X Xavier with the Q&X operating system. You know, we have a large table of supported platforms, which is a combination of the hardware and the artosses that we test and support on for each release. So, you know, you really can't hit the ground running with most go-to solutions these days. If you have something super unique, like a really unique microprocessor or and or artoss combination, you know, maybe we have to do some work to enable that, but that's going to be the very rare case. And then the other raw versions we did cover with raw stew humble being supported today. So the next question is can you explain some use cases of Apex solutions in agriculture? How useful is Apex in non-automotor? Perhaps Thomas wants to answer this. He's our agriculture guy. Yeah, for happy to do. So, some use cases. So there are the regular follower use cases, but especially when it comes also to public roads, it's getting a bit tricky. So, and this is where the safety case is important. Also, the machinery is quite complex sometimes very interesting. I think is what in the agriculture electronic foundation is discussed, because they are discussing a calculation distribution with between the tractor itself and the implement for example. So this means that you have an intelligent implement, but the calculation power for example might be in the tractor. So, how can this be handled? Then a wide variety or a high variance is also an issue. So you have different manufacturers, you have different systems. You are very dependent on perception, but the perception is also in a very harsh environment. So there are a lot of challenges. But the use cases in the end are basically to automate processes to make it for the end customer also an economical use case. To save labor, to save additional stuff. And yeah, this is exactly what they are doing. And so it's very useful in non-automotive. And I think the biggest use is also for the manufacturers because they are hardware independent in the end or they get a bit more hardware independent because they can prevent a vendor lock in. And especially in agriculture, you have very long product life cycles. And this is where we also can make a difference and ensure that the systems can also be maintained or over longer time. Not only due to the flexibility with the underlying art was and as we see, but also with the flexibility and all the the approach that you have source available software where you can also tweak the code years later. Thank you Thomas. So if there is a demo available as is asked, so please reach out via products at apex AI, we will do a demo for you. Then the next question is Ross to has a disadvantage of heavy use of tools like Holkorn or a man that may be difficult to customize for a build system is apex. Build system or customizable or modular than Ross to. Short answer is yes. Internally, we use the basal build system. You're not forced to use this as a customer, you know, wanting to develop your own applications using apex OS. So you can short answer shorter answer is you can use whatever build system that you would like. You know, we do support C make Kolkorn and basal out of the box. So we've looked into things like adding Cone and support for package management. All of these things are possible to build on top of what we provide to our customers today. Thank you. So the next question from Michael does apex item apex grace provide safety certification coverage for art or is it still required to run an art or like you and X for safety or integrity that provides the safety certified art. So we are based on top of an art so without a safety certificate like art or also certification of the overall systems not possible. So live you want to add something. Sure, yeah, we we adhere to the safety manual of the art us when we're basically integrating our technology on top of it. But that doesn't completely. You know, prevent or you're still required as the end customer whoever's building the final product to adhere to some of the other art us are operating system safety manual directives, let's say. So, you know, we're not completely checking off that box for you. There's still work you have to do to ensure your system is safe and free of unreasonable risk. But we 100% put you on the fast track auto bond to achieve that that system homologation tons. That's absolutely the thing. But what is maybe also relevant in this context. You have the same code base in apex either for example, regardless if you have a safety certified system or or not. So this is a bit difference also and maybe helpful for many customers to consider that out of the same code base you can reach safety certification regardless if you have a safety case or not. So if you really follow the rules we are applying, then this is even possible and this also is a big cost server and this is also making live up to the idea when it comes towards certification because you can have one function developed for both cases. And this is also helping to scale and to speed up just to add that. So the last question for today is how long does it take for a company to adopt apex or OS? I tried to write this out, but I wasn't fast enough so I can I can verbalize it. So it really could be weeks for small teams with you know moderately sized robotics project or even a week. So I think it's a little bit different from what I've done. But to move, you know, like an entire prototype that's functionally complete, you know, it could be up to six months perhaps. But in this porting process, you're typically also re-evaluating what architecture you have is it suitable for safety. So you're starting to think about functional safety or, you know, at this point of transition. So it's really, really difficult to answer in a general sense. But yeah, moving 10,000 lines of code, you know, we're talking hours or weeks. Moving to million, you know, that's where you need larger teams and and perhaps, yeah, like I said, up to six months or so is what we've seen. Right, thank you very much. So this really brings us now to the very end of today's session. So thanks again all for your time and your engagement. So as mentioned, your feedback is highly valued. So please let us know and please also contact us in case you would like to be able to try and don't hesitate also to access our white paper and block library. And if you like to evaluate our solutions. We are instantly ready and finally a big thanks to my colleagues Laura and liar for supporting the Q&A session today. And with that, I look forward to continuing the conversation. Have a great day. Goodbye.