# Video Information

**Title   ** : Upcoming Changes in Germany from September 2025 🗓️ | Vanakkam Germany  
**Uploader** : Vanakkam Germany  
**Duration** : 5:29  
**URL     ** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ciufst1wSjY  

---

## Transcription

 Hello, today we are talking about important changes that will affect all of us in September 2025. These affect your money, your daily life, even your future. And welcome to our monthly updates video from Manakum Germany for people who are not aware of me myself Balaji and it's been more than one year where I miss to make videos. Now it's time to get back old routine. If you're new to this channel, don't forget to subscribe to get regular updates. If you're ready, come let's get started. This video is sponsored by Manakum Germany and if you're looking for a person learn in Germany and worried how to handle it, you can reach out to our team. With the rising euro, I and a conversion rate, this could be the right time to close either an existing loan in India or support your parents or even make a big purchase for your person right here in Germany. The conditions are simple. You need to have a valid visa and not in a probation period. And the best part is this person can be available even if you're holding a blue card. We have tie up with multiple banks across Germany and we can fit you a best offer importantly the whole process is shoe for neutral and in English. You will find the application form link in the description. As change, electronic patient record. Since April this year, 2025, the electronic patient record EPA has been gradually rolled out in the healthcare system in Germany. Many practices are already using it but some are not big fans of this transition. The pharmacies, doctors and hospitals have repeatedly experienced difficulties with the EPA. However, this transition period ends on September 30, 2025. From the date onward, all the practices, clinics and other must implement this electronic patient record everywhere in Germany. Of course, you as a policy holder, you can object and stick to the old form but you must actively do so. Take National Warning Day. On Thursday, September 11, 2025, you don't be shocked. That will be another nationwide warning day in Germany. All warning systems will be thoroughly tested. Around 11 a.m., a test warning will be sent out. Aztec's messages via radio, apps and directly to your smartphone. So if your phone suddenly rings loudly on September 11, 2025 or if you heard sirens and loud speakers in your area, that is no need to worry, is just a schedule test warning. About 45 minutes later, around 11.45 a.m., an all clear message will be sent via the same channel. Next update, Health Insurance. Around 8.7 million people should pay close attention in September 2025. The deadline to cancel the private health insurance is September 30, 2025. If you want to switch the providers, if you want to switch providers, you need to keep the state in mind. You typically have to pass a new health checkup for a new plan. But if you're healthy and want more coverage or to save on the premiums, you must cancel by the date so that you can switch on January 1, 2026. You can then look for a new policy. Importantly, you can only exit from your current insurance once you have a new coverage in place. So be plan accordingly. Also, if you're looking for a guidance with private health insurance, you can book an appointment with our team using the link given in the description. Next update, Google Maps. From September 2020, Google will remove the option to follow other users in Google Maps or have followers, yourself. This feature will let you follow profiles and see recommendations or shared lists will disappear. Google says all follow data will be deleted automatically. That is nothing for you to do, accepting or declining followers will also end. But your profile visibility remains the same. Importantly, the ability to create and share your own list and favorite stays only the social following aspect goes away. Great, Heat Pumps. Since October 1, 2024, an important change to the heating cost ordinance took effect in Germany. The previous heat pump privilege was abolished until then owners or landlords of the multi-family homes with central heat pumps could build electricity cost as a flat rate or by living space without matering actual consumption. Now from September 2025, the heat pumps' electricity usage must be metered by consumption. Use more pay more. The goal is more transparency and incentives for the economical heating. By September 30, 2025, suitable metering device must be installed and operational in such buildings. The rule applies only to central heat pump systems serving multiple units, not to their individual apartments or single-family homes. Landlords must act. If they don't install meters in time, there is legal consequences and also trouble with it. The last update is Spotify. Spotify as officially announced a price increase for the premium individual plan in Germany as of September 2025. Users will pay 11.99 instead of 10.99 per month. So 1 euro more. This affects both new and existing customers. According to Spotify, existing customers will be informed of the change by email. Spotify says the reason is to continue investing in innovations, products, futures and provide the best user experience. But no specific new content or futures were announced. These are the main updates for the month of September 2025. If you liked this video, don't forget to like and share this video to your friends and also subscribe to our channel to get regular updates. Catch you next on the video. Until then, bye-bye from Vanakam, Germany, Balaji.