# Video Information

**Title   ** : Your product moat when AI models are a commodity — Chip Huyen on AI Engineering  
**Uploader** : DEMi network  
**Duration** : 15:33  
**URL     ** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9YISRUc47Ow  

---

## Transcription

 coding by itself is actually very, very boring. I'm not sure like people actually enjoy writing if else like conditions, but I think it's like the job of an engineer is not to write code, right? The job of an engineer is to solve problems. And like I feel like being able to solve a technical problem and like solving like a problem that humans can understand is a very, very different thing. So hi everyone, my name is Chip. So I'm here to talk about engineering, I think so. So that's our curiosity. So who here considers yourself an engineer? Okay, a few people. Who here wants to be an engineer? Okay, a few. So who here hates the term an engineer? Yeah, yes. I know it's a very weird term. So we have a 15 minutes, so don't worry, you're not done with this very soon. So I'm gonna talk about quickly like engineering and machine engineering. So previously, did you, I just wanna curious, it's like will you interest it in AI before chat GPT? Or it's just like yes. Okay, so you're familiar with like machine engineering in the past, when you have to building like for addiction sort of regular systems. So yeah, in the past, if you want to use machine learning for the applications, then you first need to start with like a lot of data. And then you build a model. And then you deploy this like this model as part of your product. For example, if you have a regular system, you might deploy it as part of like Spotify or Amazon. But nowadays with engineering, the process is very different. A lot of times people just start with like a fun demo. Like somebody has an idea, oh, I want to use AI for this cool things. You spend a few hours and I write it up. So you start with like a demo, like a product. And then if it goes really well, then you might want to like get the more data, to maybe like get more examples of prompt. You might want to fight tune. And then after that, it is really, really well. Then you go into like develop the model more. So the process right now is very different. You start from like the product, then you go into like get more data, and then you get into like modeling later. So interesting things about it is that like because everyone has the same model nowadays. Everyone using the same like anthropic or like Gemini or like Chatty like GPT model. So the model is like commoditized. So the competitive advantage now lie in product and data. So people keep telling me nowadays like if they ask anyone who has built a Koon AI applications, I ask them like what is the hardest challenge in building these applications? And 100% of the time will tell me it's like user experience collecting feedback. So the human aspect like the technical challenges are pretty straightforward to solve. But we know how to scale a system. We know how to like put cash. We know how to put things together. But understanding the human aspect of it is really hard. Basically in the machine learning engineering, you build your own model. But nowadays very few people actually build their own models. And these people are getting like seven or eight figures. I saw the two the other day. Somebody was saying it's like, oh wow, I thought a seven figure salary was high salary. But apparently if you can build model nowadays, people are offering like, what is it? Mark Zuckerberg is offering like crazy, 10, 40 million dollars a year, whatever. The second is that like previously, so machine learning model could be deployed as part of the product. But now it can be a standard long long applications. And next is that before you need a lot of like deep machine learning expertise, but nowadays I think a lot of people start out, like not even knowing how to explain like region descent. And I'm not saying that machine learning theory is not needed. I'm not saying that it's possible to start without knowing a lot of stuff that you previously needed. But now you can just like learn as you go. So a lot of time it's not like machine engineering or engineering. In the vast majority of systems that I see nowadays, machine learning, cherishing machine learning is you together with like jet of AI. So here's a very common example. We're gonna use some chatbot. But before we go into this very complex diagram, who here has built a chatbot? Well, yes, almost everyone. So like it's a bread and butter use case for enterprise and a customer support chatbot. And everyone's one here, like I don't know, like digital girlfriend, not digital boyfriend, it's crazy use cases. So let's go through like an example of a customer support chatbot, right? So let's see that in the beginning, you might have some queries that are very simple. Like, hey, I forgot my password. So in that case, you don't really need an AI to respond to that request. You might just want to like to show users maybe the link to the frequently asked questions. Or if the query is something very complicated, like, oh, like why did you charge me twice for like billing last month, right? Then you might want to route it to human operator to answer this question because it's sensitive to my financial and people can get very, very upset about it. But I assume some other question if I want to route it to like a model. So you might want to first have a router to determine how best she responses to this request from users. So it could be like an FAQ, it could send to human operator or a sent to like a given model. So this router is a very classical classifier so that you can just like build in-house. A lot of company builds at in-house. All I let's say, you have sent the request to the model. And the model sent back the response. You might want to check like, is this response like SIF? That is container PAI. Because maybe you connect to a chatbot with like the internal database. And it might bring, if my query, some like not just data about this users, but they some other users. All I if might say something very unsafe as a comparator, right? Like if you go for Amazon, and it's like, that's something very mean about Amazon. You don't want to send that back to users. So you might want to have like a PAI detector or a score at the end to show, to determine whether the response is safe to send back to users. So I do think it's like an engineering. It's gonna be like, it's gonna be the umbrella term like assuming like an engineering or MMO engineering. And I do see that eventually, everything's become part of the phone stack. So I do think that AI has become a come on tool that anyone can use. The same ways that databases. And databases and like JavaScript has been. So I think my next section is about like some of the anti-patterns. Like let's do some exercise that I've seen like, a lot and a lot in like productions. And let's walk through like why it is so hard to build applications, right? So one example is an actual page. So I actually invest in company. And I got a lot of like interesting ideas from like founders coming with me good amazing ideas. But not all of them are so amazing. So let's see like here's a tip that came to me. And they told me that they want to use Gen AI to have users optimized for electricity bill, right? So the idea is that the users can give the app like how they use electricity. And the apps in a tool returned back how it should change habit to reduce a bill. And they told me that our only testing show that like users can save like an average like 30% electricity bill, right? So like free money. Why wouldn't anyone want to use it? So I know I heard that a lot of you here are from crypto. So you probably have a lot of money. So would you invest in this idea? So who would invest? Good. Okay, so so what's wrong with this? Why wouldn't you invest in this? Yes, AI can cost a lot of money. I think another, so I actually asked them this like what if I just do it like a very stupid way, right? Like what if this gets the most expensive activity? Like I know that car charging expensive. What if I just put in the cheapest hour? Like charge it like midnight. How much would reduce my bill? And the team was like we actually didn't test that. So I also told me that they would test that and get back to me later. And then they never got back to me after that. But they pivoted into something else. So I do think that like for this, for the optimization, a very simple algorithm could be like just trying to like do brute force. Like yeah, let's just get the most expensive one. Activities and choose the lowest like cheapest hour to run those. So like a lot of solutions don't really get it AI. And I see this guy use case like over and over again. Okay, so another one is a lot of time a team could try our AI and they say, okay, we have very low return investment. And a lot of time it's not because of AI itself but because of like the bad product sense. Like building a good product is really hard. Like using AI is easy, but building a product on top of that is hard. So let's give another example, right? So this is from a very popular app. So what the app does is that it's a get the transcription of a meeting and then it summarized the meeting to users. So I tell the PM of this product. And as a beginning, she told me that like they agonized over how long the summary should be. So like people like, okay, maybe people want a really short summary, maybe like three sentences. All I say was said, no, no, users want really longer summaries, maybe like five or seven sentences. So which one, so who do you think is right? Who here thinks that users could be for shorter summaries? No one? You're like, huh? Shorter is better. Who here thinks that user could be for longer messages? Summarize? A few people? Okay, more people. So what they actually fight out is that users actually don't care about the summaries. What they actually care about is like action items. Like what do you have to pay attention to? Because if you look at a lot of meetings, summaries, they sound very similar. Like, okay, this person proposes, he has a person like object or anyone just nodded. Like a lot of summaries is just not relevant to a lot of attendees. People just want to know, okay, what do we have to do next after this? And is there anything that like I need to pay attention to? So yeah, so a lot of time has to validate with users. Like a lot of time intuition is just not correct. So here's another example that is very popular. So it's an case study from LinkedIn. And you can verify it online. So LinkedIn builds a chatbot to help candidates assess whether a job description is a good fit for them. So they would like to see JD and say, hey, am I a good fit for the job, right? And initially, LinkedIn assumes that users want correct answers. So what do you think the reality would be? They say yes, they want like encouragement. They want validation. Yes, no, this great human, in scientific psychology right there. So actually, LinkedIn find that like being correct is not enough because let's say that like, okay, it has like, hey, am I a good fit for the job? And the boss like your terrible fit and just end right there. So it's not really good. So what users want is not assessment. What users want is a job. So instead of saying, hey, your terrible fit for the job, you might want to say like, okay, you're not a best fit for it right now, but here are other jobs that might be good fit for you. Or I can say, here is a path toward like here as a skills missing and the here what you can do should be a good fit for this job. So like it's more like a regular system, originally like an ESR no classifier. So here's another more, here's like a more challenging example actually. So a very popular like tax filing software, you pretty know what I'm talking about. So they have like the viewer chatbot to like help users answer questions about tax. And they were very surprised to find out that like, nobody uses it. So when they test it, they was like, okay, it's like really great, like surprising very low hallucination rate, like pretty good, like internal result not great. But then they deploy to users and it's just bad. Like no one is not as bad as no one uses it. What do you think might have been the reason? Yeah? Yeah, wow, like you're good. Are you like ready work? Happy versus good. Okay, so they found out that like, when they do internal tests, because the people work with them, I should understand the tax system pretty well. So they know what question to ask. But when is they deployed to the to productions? A lot of the users are using an app, the tax app because they don't understand tax system at all. So like facing like a blank boss is just don't know what to ask. And then so found another reason is that users just really hate typing. So like people actually just prefer like click through. So what they did was that like they start like having pre populated like questions. So that user can just click on them. And actually that increased their usage like a lot more. So I was just like going through this example. This was just just say that building a product on top of AI is not that easy. I think that using AI is very easy. And also when I'm building a demo like for our cell to use is easy, but as long as you send it to other people, it's become a lot more challenging because everyone uses AI differently. And also like previously it took us a long time to like understand user behavior, right? Like imagine in the early day of like mobile phone on the internet, we didn't quite understand how users would use a phone or how users would use like the internet. Like we don't know like people use internet most need to watch video real. I feel like that idea would be like completely novel back in 2010. But nowadays it's pretty come on. So the same thing is like we just need to spend a lot of time understand what users want and how to build for that. And I do think that like it's both a blessing and a curse because like if human human problems, like if the user's problems are easy to solve, then we actually don't need humans anymore. Because I do think that technical challenges are getting easier and easier to solve. And we can be automated using a lot of AI like coding, right? Writing code nowadays is actually pretty straightforward. I was just talking to my friends just before coming here. It's like I'm obsessed with like cloud code. I'm using it so much. Like it just makes like coding so much more fun. I think it's like coding by itself is actually very, very boring. I'm not sure like people actually enjoy writing if else like conditions. But I think it's like the job of an engineer is not to write code, right? The job of engineer just solved problem. And like I feel like being able to solve a technical problem and like solving like a problem that humans can understand is a very, very different thing. So exactly what you write like code versus like coming up with like user friendly and like productive applications is very different. So yeah, so my team is very excited because now I feel like with AI, before like I have a long list of like applications, I want to build and it took me forever to get through them. But nowadays I feel like I can just like go through them like one each day and it's like a super fun. So yeah, I need to run, but like thank you so much everyone. And catch me and I'll be around here. If you have any, you want to chat about like AI coding. Thank you.