# Video Information

**Title   ** : 🚀 Aamir Paul at Automate 2025: Reinventing American Manufacturing with Software-Defined Automation  
**Uploader** : Automate Show  
**Duration** : 36:34  
**URL     ** : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X5waCeocmns  

---

## Transcription

 We are standing at the edge of the next industrial revolution. The technologies the world is developing today are going to force us to rethink everything about manufacturing faster than we've done for decades. The intersection of connected infrastructure and the data it's producing of AI, of robotics is going to force us to rethink how we design, build and operate manufacturing facilities in this country. We have an incredible responsibility and opportunity to get this right because it's not going to happen with labor. The math doesn't work. There are not enough people in the United States to make that work. It's not going to happen with wage increases. We talk about how their jobs we can't fill. Well, we could just raise wages. The problem is we become unproductive. So the only way out of this is a productivity boom like we haven't seen in manufacturing here. And if we're going to reshore and if we're going to do this differently, it's going to have to be on the back of a productivity unlock that we have never done before. And that's our collective challenge. Good morning. My name is Amar Paul. I lead Schneider's North American operations and it's a privilege to be here with all of you to have this conversation. Because the one thing I can tell you at the start and I'll repeat through my talk is this is a collective responsibility. No one company, no one solution provider can do this alone. We have to do this as a collective. Now a little bit about our company. Schneider Electric has been operating in the U.S. for well over 130 years and I'll tell you more about our history in a minute. We have 200 factories around the world. 21 of them right here in the U.S. We recently announced an investment of over $700 million, bringing our investment in the last few years to a billion dollars of investment in new factories in the U.S. You heard some of the facts from Alex about our footprint. Four out of 10 homes are powered by us. We have the privilege of powering the data center revolution. In fact, if you get online, you cannot be online for more than six hours without interfacing with the data center powered by us. I'll talk about our brands, but the impact we're trying to make is to help the world be more efficient, more reliable, and more sustainable. Last year, a time magazine named us the most sustainable company in the world. This year, corporate night's a Canadian ratings agency named us the most sustainable company in the world and we're the only company who's had that distinction twice. Now for us sustainability doesn't mean that we don't have other responsibilities. What I'm really proud of in addition to that recognition is in the same time frame we have delivered best-in-class total shareholder returns. This idea that being sustainable and being economically viable are opposed, we believe is not true. We're working with our partners and customers to prove that point out. One of the other aspects I want to talk about in driving this is sustainability should be taught off as simply a different vector of waste elimination. You're trying to define where you have waste in your system and take it away. That's a little bit of who we are. Let me tell you a little bit about our background. Yesterday you heard an incredible keynote from NVIDIA about AI, breakthrough technologies, about what it will do, how it will change the world. Will it be a force of good? What will it do to humanity? It's an exciting conversation. But you know what? It's not a new conversation. I live in Chicago across the street from Navy Pier. In 1893 the world's fair came to Chicago. You know what the breakthrough technology at the time was? Electricity. That's actually a picture of the city of lights with the demonstration of electricity. And Tesla, the man, JP Morgan, the man at the bank, Westinghouse, the man, and personally diversity hadn't quite caught up. So, firstly, they were all men. But they were there and they were having these conversations. What will this new technology do? Is it going to be safe? How do you govern it? What will it unlock? What will it change? What will that future be? And what will humanity's role in that future be? So while we think in this moment where we are is different and there are elements of it that are different, it is also important to remember that we've been here before and we've navigated these transitions before. And the constant in all of this, the constant in all of this change is actually how humans interface with it. Now the reason I bring that up is that's a little bit of where our story started. And it's so exciting to be back here in Detroit because Schneider has assembled a portfolio of companies over the last century. And we've been part of the footprint in the US over the last century. But these companies were American companies founded by American entrepreneurs. And one of the core parts of our portfolio is Square D. It started out as Detroit fuses. Which was actually present because after the World's Fair, one of the first things you had to solve for was protection. So the safety switch was born. And the safety switch was there to make electricity safer. Product naming was pretty basic back then, but effective. And Square D started and today part of the fabric of American electrification is on the back of this technology. The other reason I bring this up is while electrification is core, we've also been assembling a portfolio and inventing core industrial technologies. So wonder where? The first PLC with modicon. The solutions we have with OSI with data historians. Max Bro, Trichonix, all of these are part of the Schneider portfolio. And they've been part of the fabric of automation and industrial automation across the US for the last century. Now these assets are incredibly important, but the goal is how do we bring them together to start having a systems conversation. And this is one of our first belief systems that to have the right conversation here, we have to do it as a system architecture. I'll give you one example. Think about what happened in Germany after the Ukraine war. The first debate that was being had is do you give energy electricity to people or do you protect the industrial output of the factories? In this country we're going to have a conversation as data centers continue to drive demands on the grid. 50% of the grid growth is going to come out of data centers of who gets the energy. What is sustainable energy? So this idea that we can separate, we can isolate automation discussions, energy discussions, data discussions, we think that's a bankrupt idea. We think this is a systems engineering problem. And we have to approach it that way, at a company level, at a policy level. And that is why we've assembled the company we've assembled. Schneider Electric last year was 38 billion globally, 7 billion euros in industrial automation, 1 billion in industrial software with annual recurring revenue from Aviva. In all these categories that makes us amongst the largest providers of these solutions in the world. In the US we have 21 factories and we filed over 1,500 patents. So we have a long history of innovation in the space and we're going to keep investing and inventing but not just point solutions because the integration burden should not fall on companies. The integration should be something the technology providers should bring and how these systems work together in an open architecture and we'll talk more about that. So today we are present in 90% of the manufacturers, 49% of the top 50 chemical producers, 20% of the power generation, almost all of the 25 top food and beverage companies and the top 10 triple M companies. We consume something like 1.1% of the world's silver and 0.4% of the world's copper. So we have some sense of what happens in that mining footprint. And again, the reason this is important is because what it gives us is domain expertise. We don't believe that our goal is to just produce technology. In fact, I would contend with all of you who are here from an OEM that the technology you're producing is important but it is not the goal. The goal is to help our customers, help our partners, help society solve problems in a more productive way than it's ever done before. And so all of us are responsibly understanding not only what we're doing but what system we're part of. And that's where really the conversation today is about. One of the big fundamental things as an ecosystem, across companies, across policymakers, across system integrators that we should be working on. So let's start that conversation. I love this chart because it talks about change over time, right? So you see it took 68 years for 50 million users for the airplane. Recently, when I did this last time, Pokemon Go was sort of the winner and asked how many people were users, variable depending on the audience you're in. But the point, the takeaway here is the speed of adoption is increasing at a level that we've never imagined. And what you also see is that tipping point of the iPhone. What happened after that? And look, that's not that long ago, I suppose that's a relative statement. And for me, that's not so long ago. And what has happened after that? Almost everything is software defined. Software architectures allow you to go exponential in terms of speed of transformation. So ask yourself this question. If we're going to unlock productivity in ways we have never done, and it needs to be substantially greater than any time before, not only in our history, but competitively in the world, what is the one vector that is going to unleash that in ways that no other physical architecture can do? It has to be software defined. Software has to be a core component of that. The other headline is, people resist change. Here's an assertion. Think of any dramatic change you've been part of. There are three phases to it. At first, it's crazy. Then it's dangerous. And then it's obvious. Crazy. Dangerous. Obvious. I'll give you an example. When I was young in the internet was a new thing. Good advice was don't meet people on the internet and don't get in cars with strangers. You're laughing because you realize there's an entire business model built on meeting people on the internet and getting cars with strangers, right? So at first, that's crazy. Then it's dangerous. Then it's obvious. As we think about how we're going to change protocols, a lot of what we do, especially in the automation space, it starts with risk aversion. It starts with, well, what could go wrong? It starts with, well, we've always done it this way, so let's do that. Well, we've all done it this way. It's not going to get us the outcomes we need. And so the most important thing you have to take away from this is not only is the speed of change accelerating, not only is the unlock defined by software, but the barrier to that is a leadership mindset. And initially, that comparison doesn't look so far, but over time, it becomes exponential. Lockbuster, believe it or not, owned Netflix for a brief period of time. This was when Netflix was still mailing you DVDs. And the user experience between, you know, be kind, rewind, dropping off your VHS, and waiting for the DVD to show up wasn't that big. So blockbuster said, well, we don't think this is ever going to be profitable. It's not going to scale. We're out. You guys know where that story ends, right? If as a leader, you wait till that change is obvious, it will be too late. So all of us, whatever part of this ecosystem we're in, have to commit to leading this change, even if it feels risky. And even if initially it means we're misunderstood, because if we don't, the downside risk of being late is too great. It was a survey done recently, and it asked Americans how many Americans think we should bring manufacturing jobs back to the US? Something like 80% said, yes, we should. Survey then asked how many of you want to work in manufacturing in the US? 15% said we want to do that. That's kind of a problem. Why is it a problem? We have 2.1 million jobs that are shortfall. By 2033, that number could grow to over 3 million. 14% of Gen Z want to work in manufacturing. 27% want to work in tech. I would argue there is more tech in manufacturing than they will remain in tech. By the time you're done with AI writing code, actually manufacturing is a more pervasive and exciting technology footprint. But we have done a bad job of telling that story. I started my career at Dell, and I would contend. By the way, I loved that company. It was a privilege to be part of it. But the tech sector, I think, does a fabulous job of getting people excited about a future that doesn't quite yet exist. The industrial sector invents the future and forgets to tell people about it. Look around the showroom. How many people who are not here, who are not experts in this domain and your friends and family if you ask them about manufacturing? How many of them would imagine the showroom below? They just wouldn't. And I think we are doing not only this next generation of disservice, but frankly the country of disservice by not communicating more clearly what the future manufacturing is. We have to do a better job of attracting and retaining the next generation. And we also have to do a better job of making sure we get the data and the experience of generation we have today. Do this, and trust me, I do this. This is a weird thing, but go with me. When you are traveling, go to a water waste water utility or electrical plant. And they will give you the tour. And then you say, you know, when things really go wrong, like it is really challenging. Who do you call? And they will have three or four engineers. And these are the most remarkable, dedicated, thoughtful, committed people you will meet. It is incredible some of the talented people have met. And in 90% of the cases, they are five years from retirement. So we have this incredible knowledge transfer we have to do to infrastructure. I fly all the time. I am very concerned about air traffic controllers. I want them to be happy and healthy and super satisfied with their job because that's a problem. So this workforce problem isn't just that we can't attract people. It's a whole ecosystem that we have to think about differently. And we are starting with what is the job? How do we do knowledge transfer? And frankly, how do we make the workforce one that is ready for this generation, which is a digital first generation? Look, the view of our industry and what we are solving for has to change. And there are some great examples, right? I think when you think about the mission of the company and some of the companies presenting here, our great examples of how we tell this story. We are privileged to be a sponsor of first robotics and the work being done at the middle school and high school level. And if you have never been to a first robotics show, I encourage you to go. There is nothing quite as contagious as the energy of young people playing with these technologies, getting curious about this and wanting to build. I think that is incredibly powerful. And I think that's something we all, again, have to do together. So the last truth is that in a world of variables, in January, I had not considered trade policy to be a variable, but here we are. But in a world of variable, there are a few constants. And this is something we've forgotten because it's not something we had to pay attention to in this country. But it is one of the fundamental truths. For the picture I showed you and the electrification of the US, when you wanted to build some sort of production facility, where would you put it? You would put it where you could get access to energy. Actually waterways were an interesting point because you would use the water mills to create kinetic energy, transfer it, and use that in your production environment. So this intersection between energy and industrial production manufacturing is a constant. It will always be the driver. The entire discussion we're having about the grid, the entire discussion about oil, about natural gas, is how does the intersection of automation and energy play out? And we believe that that is something that we have to design for in how we build these facilities. And that interplay is absolutely and critically important. And again, that's why we build the portfolio we've built. Think about this. The energy costs today have gone up 23% on average in the US in the last five years. The second headline is the US is still one of the cheapest energy markets anywhere in the world. The third headline is data centers are going to be 50% of the load growth between now and 2035. So the grid, which is also 70 years old, was not designed for the loads that are going to come in. And as we think about the different kinds of manufacturing, the density of electrification, the more robotics, the more DC architecture we require, the more automation we have, this interplay of energy and automation is going to become more and more important. And so we have to start with that basis in mind. We have to start with that point of view in mind. And we've deployed this. We're a French company from time to time, so we like to say we drink our own champagne. The American colleagues say we eat our own dog food, take whichever one you prefer. But we did this in Lexington, Kentucky. Lexington, Kentucky is a 66 year old facility where we make panel boards that go into 4 out of 10 homes in America. Now, just to put in perspective, 66 years ago, cutting edge technology was a single page copier, the first automated camera and the 3 point seat belt. Okay, so that was what cutting edge was when we built Lexington. And what we did here is we said, okay, this is great, this narrative sounds great, prove it. This is a conversation we were having within our company. And we're going to prove it in a different way. We're not going to just assume that we have to greenfield this. We're going to go to the people, the operators that have been working in Lexington for 30 years and 40 years, and the people who were hired in the last six months. And we're going to work on the model that's 70% of how they learn and change is through experience. 10% is classroom education, 20% is benchmarking. And we're going to deploy that. And we're going to give them access to these technologies. And we're going to do it step by step. We're not going to sort of, it's not some big bet transformation, but it is this idea that we can get better, 1% every day. And let's see how far we can go. We started that effort about six years ago. COVID made it interesting, but we kept going. Now, Lexington is one of four lighthouses in America as a world economic forum sustainability factory. 26% energy cost reduction, 20% reduction in the meantime to repair, 5% reduction in downtime, and consistently compounding energy savings. We are making more with the same group of people in a faster, more agile way. We are driving step function productivity. And we did that in a facility that's 66 years old. Imagine what we could do with the green field side. Imagine what we could do if we could get half this yield in every operating manufacturing site we have in the country today. Because that's what we're facing. We are facing the single biggest productivity challenge we've ever faced. And again, status goal is not going to get us where we need to go. We then did that with customers. Any of you who've worked with Shell know they're very thoughtful, very demanding, very process oriented. And they really wanted to stress test our solutions. And they were already running our Foxbrook and Trichon Exclusion set. But we then went to them with this new idea of open automation. And we'll talk more about that in a minute. But we deployed EcoStructure Automation Expert, our Aviva Solutions and ETAP, which is one of the world's premier electrical design and simulation technologies. And what we could do for them is they had sort of siloed information and an operational view that wasn't sort of cohesive to the entire site. Because they were in close system, the vendors were the information was employing. So we abstracted all that information, reduced their total cost ownership, and really made it easier for their operators to scale much faster. This particular facility we did that with is in Alberta. And it is now one of the most efficient processing sites in their entire fleet globally. I'm a big fat tire fan. So this one is particularly excited that we're doing work with this company. In this case, and by the way, if you haven't been to our booth, we set it up as a brewery, not in a modged fat tire. But because we wanted to show every step of the process and how these solutions come into play. But what you'll see in our booth is actually part of the manifestation of what we did for this customer. Which was how do we make sure their operations and many of them are in remote areas? How do they run more effectively with less people on site? And again, we were able to achieve a 50% downtime reduction by driving this idea that all systems have to be talking, have to be monitored, and the digital transformation has to come together. So the technology is not the problem. The ability to look at it as a systems problem and to lean in and look at it from a different mindset and not look at productivity as an incremental goal, but as a step function goal, as a 10x goal. That is the opportunity in their customers and partners and integrators delivering that today. Look, data and connectivity makes the invisible visible. When we connect infrastructure, we get faster diagnostics. We get faster time to resolution. We get more sustainable operations with less energy consumption. And we're able to be more agile. If you step back from the late 90s to maybe a few years ago, most of our efforts were about connecting people. Remember that chart I showed you, right? People not always doing productive things as Pokemon Go would allude to or TikTok, but it was about connecting people. Yesterday you heard from Nvidia about physical AI. Now we have to connect things. We have to proliferate sensors. We have to get data embedded into every aspect of our operations. Existing operations can be upgraded with data collection and sensing capabilities. And new operations have to be built with that mindset natively. Schneider Electric in all our products is no longer creating products that do not have the protocols to communicate in a cyber secure way. Because we think connected infrastructure is not a nice to have. It is a must have to get this productivity unlock. The other thing we're thinking about is how do we really think differently about digital twins at the design basis? Using our portfolio in Aviva, including ETAB, it is critical that we design and optimize operations using digital twins before we ever start spending capital. Forget about the supply chain disruptions, lead times, cost of labor. A lot of those normal issues that we have are still going to be pervasively with us. But more importantly, we have to understand how we can optimize a facility before we actually get going. Every governor or politician I meet that wants to talk about Shevelled Ready projects, I want to give them to think about digital ready projects. Now I appreciate that the photo op isn't the same. But we can figure out a way to solve that problem too. But starting with design tools and making sure we're optimizing the fidelity of the operation, a true operating digital twin is absolutely critical. Because that will allow us to optimize the operation. The other thing it allows us to do is transfer that knowledge in real time into the build phase. And to track that asset and how it's being constructed and make sure that we understand the variances between the design point and the build point. And often we're going through different actors in the value chain to make this happen. So it's critical that we do this in a way where that information is not lost in the handover. Then you come to the operate phase. How do you actually run that facility? And then finally to optimize phase. And again, today our job as an industry is a collective is to make this a seamless experience end to end. And it's to make sure that we can help. And you know, we have competitors here who are also driving this and I couldn't share them on more. No one company is going to solve this problem. It's an ecosystem of partners, system integrators, end users, design firms, thinking differently. And letting go of the fact that the way we've always done it is not going to work anymore. This is the architecture we have built with our industrial software capabilities in Aviva. This is available. It's something we can bring to bear in existing projects and new projects today. The other element that I'm most excited about, and again you can come to our booth and see this, is the transition from closed systems to open systems. Again, this is the truth across the technology landscape. Open systems win. And we still have the way we automate if you think about it, is still where the technology itself is embedded in the hardware. And we think that's a bankrupt idea. We think automation has to become software defined. And with EcoStructure Automation Expert and the EcoStructure Automation Platform, that is exactly what we're doing. This is the world's first and most complete software defined architecture. What you will see with this architecture is the ability to be agile and change our automation schemes faster than we've ever done before, but aggregated over time. What will happen? What will happen is the cost of the hardware will follow the same curve as the tech sector. We will commoditize the hardware and the smarts and the intelligence will be in the software. Again, we've seen this repeatedly. How much would you value your iPhone without an operating OS on it? What would be the value of your laptop without an operating system on it? And by the way, how much have you paid for a laptop recently relative to what you paid back in the 90s? So why has the cost curve for compute, storage, networking, and IT follow the curve it has, and the cost curve for the same hardware stack doing fundamentally the same things, and that's a lot of machine not follow that curve. The reason is we have not leaned into software defined architectures as much and as fast as we need to, and that is what we are championing. This also enables you to build on that data set and drive the intersection of physical AI, robotics, and automation. To that end, we were really excited to announce this week, and you can see a beta in our booth, the first industrial co-pilot that we've developed with Microsoft, that not only allows you to drive this architecture, but actually allows you to use a co-pilot to program the sequencing behind us. Now go back to that water waste water facility with those incredibly talented engineers that are going to retire. We're on a clock, and we have to capture those insights, those nuances that understanding to have of their facilities, and codify that in these AI systems. And the only way we can do that and connect that platform to how we actually operate is start transitioning to a software defined architecture. So we're super excited about leading this, but we're even more excited about the fact that this is now becoming a movement with many, many companies being part of it. You see some of the logos here, large companies, small companies, end users, multiple sectors, people are recognizing that the unlock, the 10X unlock, is not going to happen in scaling the similar architecture. It's going to happen by moving to an open software defined platform. And that's one of the biggest sort of changes in our architectural system and the true line between data, sustainability, robotics, and AI. We've got to invest in people differently. We talked about attracting people, but even when we bring them in, what are we training them to do? If you look around again, the trade floor, robotics engineers, people who understand physical AI, people who can be prompt engineers, right? Forget those terms, but the point is they're operating in highly technical, highly data-driven environment. The physical aspects in a manufacturing environment are still present, but we're driving them down. I have the privilege of serving at the board of the United States gypsum, they make wallboard and roofing materials. They have a visual AI tool when wallboard comes out on how to make sure that a human operator doesn't have to fix it because the ergonomics of that fix generally leads to problems. So, more and more, even in sort of very traditional manufacturing, the idea of the physical aspect of what we are asking people to do is going away, and the idea of how we train them to interface with technologies. You heard it in the video at the starting. It's not about machines or technology replacing people. It's about machines working with people. But are we investing the right way? One of the things Schneider is committed to is working with trade schools and making sure that we are investing in building the next generation of curriculum. We're going to open source a lot of that curriculum to make it available. And I think, again, collectively, we have responsibility to get that part right because it's not just the quantity of people we have, but the caliber of training we provide them to make sure we have the workforce of the future. So, in conclusion, there are a few questions that I would encourage you to ask. How are you integrating software and open software into your operational infrastructure? What speed and agility will it get you? Today, if you have to drive a change in your process, how long does it take? And how much faster could you do it? And how could you use AI and co-pilot technology if you had a software-defined architecture? What are you doing to empower the workforce of the future? Not only to attract, but retain and develop them. And most importantly, are you going to jump in when it feels a little crazy, when it feels a little dangerous, or are you going to wait till it's obvious? What is your responsibility to your organization, to your peers, and to your team? Change is going to be a constant, but no progress is achieved without a degree of discomfort. There's always new technologies to get excited about how many different axes a robot has, what are we calling it? Robotics or physical AI? You know, we can get lost in the acronyms, but actually the real work is about dealing with the discomfort of driving and leading change. The skills gap is real, but the technology gap is not. And we have an opportunity to close that gap, and frankly, especially in the United States, productivity is a critical outcome to get this right. And like every other part of the tech sector, this is not even close. Open software-defined architectures will win. That is our vision of the future. That is the company me and my colleagues are committed to building and leading. That is the partner we want to be for the system integrators and other OEMs in the room. That is a solution we want to provide to end users. We're excited together to redefine American manufacturing. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good job.